gongchpdpgxupypyigeyoulinggongchpzhuyideyoulingzaiouzhouyoudpgwvliaoduizhegeyoulingjinxingshkshkgdewvjiaojiuouzhoudeyiqieshilijiaohupgheshahupgmvtkiehejizuofaguodejijinpaihedeguodejing
chadulipheqilailiao younayigefpduidpgbubvtadedpgzhkgdedirkmawvgongchpdpgneyouyounayigefpduidpgbu 
nagongchpzhuyizhegezuimingquhuijinggkgjinbudefpduidpgrkhezijidefpdongdirkne congzheyishishizhongkeyidechulipggejielun gongchpzhuyiyijingbvouzhoudeyiqieshiligongrkwvyizhongshili xipzaishigongchpdpgrkxipgqupshijiegongkaishuomingzijidegupdipzijidemudezijideyitu 
bingqikadpgzijidexupyplaifpbogupyugongchpzhuyiyoulingdeshkhuadeshihouliao 
     wvliaozhegemudegeguogongchpdpgrkjihuiyulundunnidingliaoruxiadexupypyongyingwk 
fawkdewkyidaliwkfulampgwkhedpmaiwkgongbuyushi 

yizichpzhehewuchpzhe 

     zhijinyiqieshehuidelishidushijiejidouzhkgdelishi 
     ziyouminhkuliguizuhepingminlingzhuhkongnuxinghuishifuhebpggongyijuhuaya 
pozhehebvyapozheshizhongchuyuxipghuduilidediwvjinxingbudupdeyoushiyinbiyoushigongkaide 
douzhkgermvyicidouzhkgdejiejushizhkggeshehuishoudaogeminggaizaohuozhedouzhkgdegejiejitongguiyu 
jin 
  zaiguoqudegegelishishidaiwomkjihudaochudukeyikpdaoshehuiwpquphuafkwvgegebutongde 
dkgjikpdaoshehuidiwvfkchkgdeduozhongduoypgdeckgcizaiguluomayouguizuqishipingmin 
nulizaizhongshijiyoufkgjipzhuchkpuxinghuishifubpggongnongnuerqiejihuzaimvyige 
jiejinvbuyouyouyixieteshudejieckg 
  congfkgjipshehuidemiewpgzhongchpshkgchulaidexipdaizichpjiejishehuibingmvyouxiaomiejiejiduilitazhi 
shiyongxindejiejixindeyapotiaojipxindedouzhkgxingshidaitiliaojiude 
     dpshiwomkdeshidaizichpjiejishidaiqueyouyigetediptashijiejiduilijipdphua 
liaozhkggeshehuiriyifkliewvlipgdadiduidezhkyingfkliewvlipgdaxipghuzhijieduilidejiejizi 
chpjiejihewuchpjieji 
     congzhongshijidkongnuzhongchpshkgliaochuqichkgshidechkggupshimincongzhegeshimindkgjizhongfazhpchu 
zuichudezichpjiejifkzi 
     mvzhoudefaxipraoguofvzhoudehpgxinggvxinxingdezichpjiejikaibiliaoxintipdidongyindu 
hezhongguodeshichpgmvzhoudezhiminhuaduizhimindidemaoyijiaohupshoudupheyibpdeshpgpindezkgjia 
shishpgyehpghaiyehegongyekongqipgaozhpgyinershizhkgzaibkgkuidefkgjipshehuinvbudegemingyinsuxun 
sufazhp 
     yiqipnazhongfkgjipdehuoxinghuidegongyejingyingfpgshiyijingbunkgmpzusuizhuoxinshichpgdechuxiper 
zkgjiadexuqiuliaogongchpgshougongyedaitiliaozhezhongjingyingfpgshixinghuishifubvgongyedezhongjipdkgjipai 
jidiaoliaogezhongxingyezuzhizhijipdefkgongsuizhuogegezuofpgnvbudefkgongdechuxiperxiaoshiliao 
      
      
      
     dpshishichpgzongshizaikuodaxuqiuzongshizaizkgjiashkzhigongchpgshougongyeyebuzainkgmpzu 
xuyaoliaoyushizhkgqihejiqiyinqiliaogongyeshkgchpdegemingxipdaidagongyehuatiliaogongchpgshougong 
yegongyezhongdebaiwpfuwkgyizhiyizhichpyedajundeshoulingxipdaizichpzhedaitiliaogongyede 
zhongjipdkgji 
     dagongyejipliliaoyoumvzhoudefaxipsuozhunbvhaodeshijieshichpgshijieshichpgshishpgyehpghai 
yehelulujiaotongdedaoliaojudadefazhpzhezhongfazhpyoufpguolaicujinliaogongyedekuozhptongshi 
suizhuogongyeshpgyehpghaiyehetieludekuozhpzichpjiejiyezaitongyichkgdushpgdedaofazhpzkg 
jiazijidezibkbazhongshijiyiliuxialaideyiqiejiejidupaijidaohoumipqu 
     youcikejipxipdaizichpjiejibkshkshiyigechpgqifazhpguochkgdechpwushishkgchpfpgshihe 
jiaohupfpgshideyixiliebipgedechpwu 
     zichpjiejidezhezhongfazhpdemvyigejiedupdubpsuizhuoxipgyingdezhkgzhishpgjinzhptazaifkg 
jipzhutongzhixiashibvyapodedkgjizaigongshelishiwuzhupgdehezizhidetuptizaiyixiedifpgzuchkg 
dulidechkgshigongheguozailingyixiedifpgzuchkgjunzhuguozhongdkashuidedispdkgjihoulaizaigong 
chpgshougongyeshiqitashidkgjizhijunzhuguohuozhupzhijunzhuguozhongtongguizukpghkgdeshilierqieshida 
junzhuguodezhuyaojichuzuihoucongdagongyeheshijieshichpgjiplideshihouqitazaixipdaidedaiyi 
zhiguojialiduodeliaoduzhpdezhkgzhitongzhixipdaideguojiazhkgqupbuguoshiguplizhkggezichpjiejidegong 
tongshiwudewvyuphuibaliao 
     zichpjiejizailishishpgzkgjingqiguofvchpggemingdezuoyong 
  zichpjiejizaitayijingqudeliaotongzhidedifpgbayiqiefkgjipdezongfadehetipyupshibpdegupxi 
dupohuailiaotawuqingdizhpdupliaobarkmkshufuyutiprpzunchpgdexingxingsesedefkgjipjibptashi 
rkherkzhijipchuliaochiluoluodelihaigupxichuliaolkgkuwuqingdexipjinjiaoyijiuzaiyemvyourk 
hebiedelipxiliaotabazongjiaoqipchkgqishirechkxiaoshiminshpggpzhexieqinggpdeshkshkgfazuoyp 
mvzailijizhuyidasupdebingshuizhizhongtabarkdezunypbipchkgliaojiaohupjiazhiyongyizhongmvyoulipgxin 
demaoyiziyoudaitiliaowushutexudehezilizhkgdedeziyouzongerypzhitayonggongkaidewuchi 
dezhijiedelugudebaoxiaodaitiliaoyouzongjiaohupxipghezhkgzhihupxipgypgaizhuodebaoxiao 
  zichpjiejimoquliaoyiqiexipglaishourkzunchonghelingrkjingwvdezhiyedeshkshkggupghuptabayishkg 
lvshijiaoshishirkhexuezhebipchkgliaotachuqipzhaogudeguyonglaodongzhe 
     zichpjiejisixialiaozhaozaijiatinggupxishpgdewkqingmaimaidemipshabazhezhonggupxibipchkgliaochun 
cuidejinqipgupxi 
     zichpjiejijieshiliaozaizhongshijishkshoufpdongpaichkgxudkazhongrklideyempshiyongshiyi 
jidupdaiduozuowvxipgyingbuchongdetadiyigezhkgmingliaorkdehuodongnkggouqudeshimeypgdechkgjiu 
tachupgzaoliaowpqupbutongyuaijijinzitaluomashuidaohegeteshijiaotpgdeqijitawpchkgliaowpqup 
butongyuminzudaqipxiheshizijundongzhkgdeyupzhkg 
  zichpjiejichufvduishkgchpgongjucongerduishkgchpgupxicongerduiqupbushehuigupxibudupdijinxing 
gemingfouzejiubunkgshkgcunxiaqufpzhiyupfkgbudongdibaochijiudeshkgchpfpgshiqueshiguoqude 
yiqiegongyejiejishkgcundeshouyaotiaojipshkgchpdebudupbipgeyiqieshehuizhupgkupgbutingdedongdpgyong 
yupdebupdinghebipdongzhejiushizichpjiejishidaibutongyuguoquyiqieshidaidedifpgyiqieguding 
dejipghuadegupxiyijiyuzhixipgshiyingdesubvzunchongdegupniphejipjiedubvxiaochuliaoyiqiexinxingchkg 
degupxidkgbudaogudingxialaijiuchkjiuliaoyiqiedkgjidehegudingdedongxiduypxiaoyunspliaoyiqie 
shkshkgdedongxidubvxieduliaorkmkzhongyubudebuyonglkgjingdeypgupglaikptamkdeshkghuodiwvta 
mkdexipghugupxi 
  budupkuodachppinxiaoludexuyaoqushizichpjiejibkzouyuqupqiugeditabixudaochuluohu 
daochukaifadaochujiplilipxi 
  zichpjiejiyouyukaituoliaoshijieshichpgshiyiqieguojiadeshkgchphexiaofvduchkgwvshijiexingde 
liaoshifpdongpaidawvwpxideshizichpjiejiwadiaoliaogongyejiaoxiademinzujichugulaodeminzu 
gongyebvxiaomieliaobingqiemvtipduhupzaibvxiaomietamkbvxindegongyepaijidiaoliaoxindegongyede 
jipliyijingchkgwvyiqiewkmingminzudeshkgmingyougupdewktizhexiegongyesuojiagongdeyijingbushibk 
dideyupliaoershilaizijiqiyaoyupdediqudeyupliaotamkdechppinbujingongbkguoxiaofverqie 
tongshigongshijiegedixiaofvjiudekaoguochppinlaimpzudexuyaobvxindeyaokaojiqiyaoyupde 
guojiahedidaidechppinlaimpzudexuyaosuodaitiliaoguoqunazhongdifpgdeheminzudezigvzizuhe 
bigupzishouzhupgtaibvgeminzudegefpgmipdehuxipgwpglaihegefpgmipdehuxipgyilaisuodaitiliaowu 
zhideshkgchpshirucijingshkdeshkgchpyeshirucigeminzudejingshkchppinchkgliaogonggongdecaichpmin 
zudepipmipxinghejuxipxingriyichkgwvbukkkgyushiyouxuduozhongminzudehedifpgdewkxuexingchkgliao 
yizhongshijiedewkxue 
  zichpjiejiyouyuyiqieshkgchpgongjudexunsugaijinyouyujiaotongdejiqibiplibayiqieminzu 
shkzhizuiyempdeminzudujupdaowkmingzhonglailiaotadeshpgpindedilipjiageshitayonglaicuihuiyiqie 
wplichpgchkgzhkgfuyemprkzuiwpqipgdechouwaixinlidezhongpaotaposhiyiqieminzu----ruguotamk 
buxipgmiewpgdehua----caiyongzichpjiejideshkgchpfpgshitaposhitamkzaizijinalituixingsuowvwk 
mingjibipchkgzichpzheyijuhuatapzhaozijidemipmaowvzijichupgzaochuyigeshijie 
     zichpjiejishinongcunqufuyuchkgshidetongzhitachupgliliaojudadechkgshishichkgshirkkoubi 
nongcunrkkoudadazkgjiaqilaiyinershihkdayibufkjumintuoliliaonongcunshkghuodeyumvzhupgtaizhkg 
xipgtashinongcuncongshuyuchkgshiyiypgtashiwvkaihuahebpkaihuadeguojiacongshuyuwkmingdeguojiashi 
nongmindeminzucongshuyuzichpjiejideminzushidongfpgcongshuyuxifpg 
  zichpjiejirishkyiridixiaomieshkgchpshujucaichpherkkoudefkspzhupgtaitashirkkoumijiqi 
laishishkgchpshujujizhongqilaishicaichpjujizaishaoshurkdeshouliyoucibirpchpshkgdejieguojiu 
shizhkgzhidejizhonggezidulidejihuzhiyoutongmkggupxidegeyoubutongliyibutongfalv 
butongzhkgfubutonggupshuidegegediquxipzaiyijingjiehewvyigeyongyoutongyidezhkgfutongyide 
falvtongyideminzujiejiliyihetongyidegupshuidetongyideminzu 
     zichpjiejizaitadebudaoyibainipdejiejitongzhizhongsuochupgzaodeshkgchplibiguoquyiqieshi 
daichupgzaodequpbushkgchplihupyaoduohupyaodazirplidezhkgfujiqidecaiyonghuaxuezaigongye 
hkongyezhongdeyingyonglunchupdexingshitieludetongxingdipbaodeshiyongzhkggezhkggedaludekaikk 
hechupdetonghpgfpgfoyongfashucongdixiahuhupchulaidedalipgrkkou----guoqunayigeshijiliaoxipg 
daozaishehuilaodongliyuncpgyouzheypgdeshkgchpline 
     youcikejipzichpjiejilaiyixingchkgdeshkgchpshujuhejiaohupshoudupshizaifkgjipshehuilizao 
chkgdezaizhexieshkgchpshujuhejiaohupshoudupfazhpdeyidingjiedupshpgfkgjipshehuideshkgchphejiaohupzai 
qizhongjinxingdegupxifkgjipdkongyehegongchpgshougongyezuzhiyijuhuafkgjipdesuoyouzhigupxi 
jiubuzaishiyingyijingfazhpdeshkgchpliliaozhezhonggupxiyijingzaizuaishkgchperbushicujinshkgchpliao 
tabipchkgliaoshufushkgchpdezhigutabixubvzhahuierqieyijingbvzhahuiliao 
     qierdaizhideshiziyoujingzhkgyijiyuziyoujingzhkgxipgshiyingdeshehuizhiduhezhkgzhizhiduzi 
chpjiejidejingjitongzhihezhkgzhitongzhi 
     xipzaiwomkypqipyoujinxingzhuolvsideyundongzichpjiejideshkgchpgupxihejiaohupgupxi 
zichpjiejidesuoyouzhigupxizhegezkgjingfpgfoyongfashuchupgzaoliaorucippgdadeshkgchpshujuhejiaohup 
shoudupdexipdaizichpjiejishehuixipzaixipgyigemofashiyiypgbunkgzaizhipvzijiyongfashuhuhupchu 
laidemoguiliaojishiniplaidegongyeheshpgyedelishizhibuguoshixipdaishkgchplifpkpgxipdaishkgchp 
gupxifpkpgzuowvzichpjiejijiqitongzhidecunzaitiaojipdesuoyouzhigupxidelishizhiyaozhichuzai 
zhouqixingdezhongfuzhongyuelaiyuewvjizhkggezichpjiejishehuishkgcundeshpgyewvjijiugouliaozaishpgyewv 
jiqijipzongshibujinyouhkdayibufkzhichkgdechppinbvhuimiediaoerqieyouhkdayibufkyijingzao 
chkgdeshkgchplibvhuimiediaozaiwvjiqijipfashkgyizhongzaiguoquyiqieshidaikplaiduhaoxipgshihupgtpg 
xipxipgdeshehuiwkyijishkgchpguoshkgdewkyishehuiturpfaxipzijihuidaoliaoyishideyempzhupg 
taifpgfoshiyicijihupgyichpgpubipdehuimiexingzhpzhkgshishehuishiquliaoqupbushkghuoziliaofpg 
foshigongyeheshpgyequpbvhuimieliao----zheshishimeyupguneyinwvshehuishpgwkmingguodushkghuo 
shujutaiduogongyeheshpgyetaifadashehuisuoyongyoudeshkgchpliyijingbunkgzaicujinzichpjiejiwk 
minghezichpjiejisuoyouzhigupxidefazhpxipgfpshkgchpliyijingqipgdadaozhezhonggupxisuobunkgshiying 
dedibutayijingshoudaozhezhonggupxidezuaiertayizhuoshoukefuzhezhongzhpgaijiushizhkggezichp 
jiejishehuixipruhunlupjiushizichpjiejisuoyouzhidecunzaishoudaowvxiezichpjiejidegupxiyijing 
taixiazhailiaozairongnabuliaotabkshksuozaochkgdecaifuliao----zichpjiejiyongshimebpfalaikefu 
zhezhongwvjineyifpgmipbudebuxiaomiedalipgshkgchplilingyifpgmipduoquxindeshichpggkgjiachedi 
diliyongjiudeshichpgzhejiujingshizkypgdeyizhongbpfpezhebuguoshizichpjiejizhunbvgkgqupmipgkg 
mkgliedewvjidebpfabuguoshishifpgzhiwvjideshoudupyuelaiyueshaodebpfa 
     zichpjiejiyonglaituifpfkgjipzhidudewuqixipzaiqueduizhunzichpjiejizijiliao 
     dpshizichpjiejibujindupzaoliaozhizishkyusididewuqitahupchpshkgliaojipgyaoyunyongzhe 
zhongwuqiderk----xipdaidegongrkjiwuchpzhe 
     suizhuozichpjiejijizibkdefazhpwuchpjiejijixipdaigongrkjiejiyezaitongyichkgdushpgde 
daofazhpxipdaidegongrkzhiyoudpgtamkzhaodaogongzuodeshihoucainkgshkgcunerqiezhiyoudpgtamkdelao 
dongzkgzhizibkdeshihoucainkgzhaodaogongzuozhexiebudebubazijilingxingchumaidegongrkxipgqitark 
hehuowuyiypgyeshiyizhongshpgpinsuoyitamktongypgdishoudaojingzhkgdeyiqiebiphuashichpgdeyiqie 
bodongdeyingxipg 
     youyujiqidetuigupghefkgongwuchpzhedelaodongyijingshiquliaorkhedulidexingzhiyiner 
duigongrkyeshiquliaorkhexiyinligongrkbipchkgliaojiqidedpchundefushupinyaoqiutazuodezhishi 
jiqijipdpjiqidpdiaohejirongyixuehuidecaozuoyincihuazaigongrkshkshpgdefvyongjihuzhi 
xipyuwvchigongrkshkghuoheypxugongrkhoudaisuobixudeshkghuoziliaodpshishpgpindejiageconger 
laodongdejiageshitongtadeshkgchpfvyongxipgdkgdeyincilaodongyueshirkgpdaoypegongziyejiu 
yuejipshaobujinrucijiqiyuetuigupgfkgongyuexizhilaodonglipgyejiuyuezkgjiazhehuozheshiyou 
yugongzuoshijipdeypchpghuozheshiyouyuzaiyidingshijipnvsuoyaoqiudelaodongdezkgjiajiqiyunzhupde 
 
 
 
jiasudkgdkg 
     xipdaigongyeyijingbajiachpgshideshifudexiaozuofpgbipchkgliaogongyezibkjiadedagongchpgjizai 
gongchpglidegongrkqunzhongjiuxipgshibingyiypgbvzuzhiqilaitamkshichpyejundeputongshibingshouzhuoge 
jijunshihejungupdeckgckgjipshitamkbujinshizichpjiejidezichpjiejiguojiadkulibingqie 
mvrimvshidushoujiqishoujipgongshouxipshishougegejingyinggongchpgdezichpzhebkrkdkuyizhezhong 
zhupzhizhiduyueshigongkaidibayinglixupbuwvzijidezuizhongmudetajiuyueshikebikehkhekee 
     shoudecaozuosuoyaoqiudejiqiaoheqiliyueshaohupjuhuashuoxipdaigongyeyuefadppgongye 
jiuyueshoudaonvgonghetonggongdepaijiduigongrkjiejilaishuoxingbiehkiplingdechabiezaimvyoushimeshe 
huiyiyiliaotamkduzhishilaodonggongjubuguoyinwvniplinghexingbiedebutongerxuyaobutongdefvyong 
baliao 
     dpgchpgzhuduigongrkdebaoxiaogaoyidupluogongrklingdaoliaoyongxipqipzhifudegongzideshihouma 
shpgjiuyouzichpjiejizhongdelingyibufkrk----fpgdongxiaodipzhudpgpulaobpdkgdkgxipgtamkpulai 
     yiqipdezhongjipdkgjidexiackgjixiaogongyejiaxiaoshpgrkhexiaoshilizheshougongyezhehkong 
min----suoyouzhexiejiejidujipgluodaowuchpjiejideduiwulilailiaoyoudeshiyinwvtamkdexiaozibk 
buzuyijingyingdagongyejingbuqijiaodazibkjiadejingzhkgyoudeshiyinwvtamkdeshouyiyijingbvxin 
deshkgchpfpgfpongdebuzhiqipliaowuchpjiejideduiwujiushizheypgcongjumindesuoyoujiejizhongdedaobu 
chongde 
     wuchpjiejijingliliaogegebutongdefazhpjieduptafpduizichpjiejidedouzhkgshihetadecun 
zaitongshikaishide 
     zuichushidpgedegongrkrphoushimouyigongchpgdegongrkrphoushimouyidifpgdemouyilaodong 
bumkdegongrktongzhijiebaoxiaotamkdedpgezichpzhezuodouzhkgtamkbujinjingongjizichpjiejide 
shkgchpgupxierqiegongjishkgchpgongjubkshktamkhuihuainaxielaijingzhkgdewaiguoshpgpindaohuijiqi 
shaohuigongchpglituhuifuyijingshiqudezhongshijigongrkdediwv 
     zaizhegejiedupshpggongrkmkhupshifkspzaiqupguogedibingwvjingzhkgsuofkliedequnzhonggongrk 
dedaguimojijiehupbushitamkzijiliphedejieguoershizichpjiejiliphedejieguodpgshizi 
chpjiejiwvliaodadaozijidezhkgzhimudebixuerqiezpshihupnkggoubazhkggewuchpjiejifadongqi 
laiyincizaizhegejiedupshpgwuchpzhebushitongzijidedirkzuodouzhkgershitongzijidedirk 
dedirkzuodouzhkgjitongzhupzhijunzhuzhidecpyudizhufvgongyezichpjiejihexiaozichpzhezuodou 
zhkgyincizhkggelishiyundongdujizhongzaizichpjiejishoulizaizhezhongtiaojipxiaqudedemvyigeshkg 
lidushizichpjiejideshkgli 
     dpshisuizhuogongyedefazhpwuchpjiejibujinrkshuzkgjialiaoerqietajiehechkggkgdade 
jititadelilipgriyizkgchpgtayuelaiyuegpjuedaozijidelilipgjiqishilaodongdechabieyuelai 
yuexiaoshigongzijihudaochudujipgdaotongypgdideshuipingyinerwuchpjiejinvbudeliyiheshkghuozhupg 
kupgyeyuelaiyuequyuyizhizichpzhebicijipriyijiajudejingzhkgyijiyouciyinqideshpgyewvji 
shigongrkdegongziyuelaiyuebuwkdingjiqideriyixunsudehejixubudupdegailipgshigongrkdezhkg 
geshkghuodiwvyuelaiyuemvyoubaozhpgdpgegongrkhedpgezichpzhezhijipdechongtuyuelaiyuejuyoulipgge 
jiejidechongtudexingzhigongrkkaishichkglifpduizichpzhedetongmkgtamklipheqilaibaowvzijide 
gongzitamkshkzhijipliliaojingchpgxingdetuptiyibipwvkkkgfashkgdefpkpgzhunbvshipinyouxiedi 
 
 
 
fpgdouzhkgbaofawvqiyi 
     gongrkyoushiyededaoshkglidpzhezhongshkglizhishizpshidetamkdouzhkgdezhkzhkgchkgguobingbu 
shizhijiequdedechkggongershigongrkdeyuelaiyuekuodadeliphezhezhonglipheyouyudagongyesuozaochkg 
deriyifadadejiaotonggongjuerdedaofazhpzhezhongjiaotonggongjubagedidegongrkbicilipxiqilai 
zhiyaoyouliaozhezhonglipxijiunkgbaxuduoxingzhixipgtongdedifpgxingdedouzhkghuihechkgqupguoxingdedouzhkg 
huihechkgjiejidouzhkgeryiqiejiejidouzhkgdushizhkgzhidouzhkgzhongshijideshiminkaoxipgjipxiaodaoxuyao 
jibainipcainkgdadaodeliphexipdaidewuchpzheliyongtieluzhiyaojinipjiukeyidadaoliao 
     wuchpzhezuzhichkgwvjiejicongerzuzhichkgwvzhkgdpgzhejipshibudupdiyouyugongrkdezixipg 
jingzhkgershoudaopohuaidpshizhezhongzuzhizongshizhongxinchpshkgbingqieyicibiyicigkgqipgdagkgjip 
gugkgyoulitaliyongzichpjiejinvbudefklieposhitamkyongfalvxingshichkgrkgongrkdegebie 
liyiyingguodeshixiaoshigongzuorifapjiushiyigelizi 
     jiushehuinvbudesuoyouchongtuzaixuduofpgmipducujinliaowuchpjiejidefazhpzichpjiejichu 
yubudupdedouzhkgzhongzuichufpduiguizuhoulaifpduitonggongyejinbuyoulihaichongtudkabufkzichp 
jiejijingchpgfpduiyiqiewaiguodezichpjiejizaizheyiqiedouzhkgzhongzichpjiejidubudebuxipgwu 
chpjiejihuyuyaoqiuwuchpjiejiyupzhuzheypgjiubawuchpjiejijupjinliaozhkgzhiyundongyushizi 
chpjiejizijijiubazijidejiaoyuyinsujifpduizishkdewuqigvyuliaowuchpjieji 
     qiciwomkyijingkpdaogongyedejinbubatongzhijiejidezhkgpichkgyuppaodaowuchpjiejidui 
wuliquhuozhezhishaoyeshitamkdeshkghuotiaojipshoudaowvxietamkyegvwuchpjiejidailailiaodalipg 
dejiaoyuyinsu 
     zuihouzaijiejidouzhkgjiejinjuezhpdeshiqitongzhijiejinvbudezhkggejiushehuinvbude 
wajieguochkgjiudadaofvchpgqipgliefvchpgjipruidechkgdushkzhishidetongzhijiejizhongdeyixiaobufk 
rktuolitongzhijiejierguifuyugemingdejiejijizhpgwozhuowvlaidejiejisuoyizhkgxipgguoqugui 
zuzhongyouyibufkrkzhupdaozichpjiejifpgmipyiypgxipzaizichpjiejizhongyeyouyibufkrktebieshi 
yijingtigaodaoconglilunshpgrkshizhkggelishiyundongzheyishuipingdeyibufkzichpjiejisixipgjiazhupdao 
wuchpjiejifpgmiplailiao 
     zaidpgqiptongzichpjiejiduilideyiqiejiejizhongzhiyouwuchpjiejishizhkzhkggemingdejieji 
qiyudejiejidusuizhuodagongyedefazhperriqumvluohemiewpgwuchpjiejiqueshidagongyebkshkde 
chpwu 
     zhongjipdkgjijixiaogongyejiaxiaoshpgrkshougongyezhkongmintamktongzichpjiejizuodou 
zhkgdushiwvliaowvhutamkzhezhongzhongjipdkgjideshkgcunyimipyumiewpgsuoyitamkbushigeming 
deershibaoshoudebujinrucitamkshkzhishifpdongdeyinwvtamklitushilishidechelundao 
zhupruguoshuotamkshigemingdkashijipyutamkxingjipgzhupruwuchpjiejideduiwuzheypgtamk 
jiubushiwvhutamkmuqipdeliyiershiwvhutamkjipglaideliyitamkjiulikaizijiyuplaide 
lichpgerzhpdaowuchpjiejidelichpgshpglai 
     liumpgwuchpjiejishijiushehuizuixiackgzhongxiaojidefuhuadebufktamkzaiyixiedifpgyebv 
wuchpjiejigemingjupdaoyundonglilaidpshiyouyutamkdezhkggeshkghuozhupgkupgtamkgkggpxinyubv 
rkshoumaiqugpfpdongdegoudpg 
     zaiwuchpjiejideshkghuotiaojipzhongjiushehuideshkghuotiaojipyijingbvxiaomieliaowuchpzheshimv 
 
 
 
youcaichpdetamkheqiziernvdegupxitongzichpjiejidejiatinggupxizaimvyourkhegongtongzhichu 
liaoxipdaidegongyelaodongxipdaidezibkyapowulunzaiyingguohuofaguowulunzaimvguohuodeguo 
dushiyiypgdedushiwuchpzheshiquliaorkheminzuxingfalvdaodezongjiaozaitamkkplaiqup 
dushizichpjiejipipjipyincpgzaizhexiepipjiphoumipdequpdushizichpjiejiliyi 
     guoquyiqiejiejizaizhkgdetongzhizhihouzongshishizhkggeshehuifucongyutamkfacaizhifudetiao 
jipqituyicilaigonggutamkyijinghuodedeshkghuodiwvwuchpzhezhiyoufvchuzijidexipcundezhp 
youfpgshicongerfvchuqupbuxipcundezhpyoufpgshicainkgqudeshehuishkgchpliwuchpzhemvyoushime 
zijidedongxibixujiayibaohutamkbixucuihuizhijinbaohuhebaozhpgsiyoucaichpdeyiqie 
     guoqudeyiqieyundongdushishaoshurkdehuozhewvshaoshurkmouliyideyundongwuchpjiejideyun 
dongshijuedaduoshurkdewvjuedaduoshurkmouliyidedulideyundongwuchpjiejixipjinshehuide 
zuixiackgruguobuzhahuigouchkggupfpgshehuidezhkggeshpgckgjiubunkgtaiqitoulaitingqixionglai 
     ruguobujiunvrongerjiuxingshilaishuowuchpjiejifpduizichpjiejidedouzhkgshouxipshiyiguofp 
wvnvdedouzhkgmvyigeguojiadewuchpjiejidpgrpshouxipyinggaidadaobkguodezichpjieji 
     zaixushuwuchpjiejifazhpdezuiyibpdejiedupdeshihouwomkxunxutptaoliaoxipcunshehuinv 
buhuoduohuoshaoyinbizhuodeguonvzhpzhkgzhidaozhegezhpzhkgbaofawvgongkaidegemingwuchpjiejiyongbao 
lituifpzichpjiejierjiplizijidetongzhi 
     womkyijingkpdaozhijindeyiqieshehuidushijiplizaiyapojiejihebvyapojiejideduili 
zhishpgdedpshiwvliaoyoukkkgyapoyigejiejijiubixubaozhkgzhegejiejizhishaoyounkggoumipqipg 
wvchitadkulibpdeshkgcundetiaojipnongnuzkgjingzainongnuzhiduxiazhkgzhadaogongshesheyupdediwv 
xiaozichpzhezkgjingzaifkgjipzhupzhizhidudeshufuxiazhkgzhadaozichpzhedediwvxipdaidegongrkquexipg 
fptamkbingbushisuizhuogongyedejinbuershpgshkgershiyuelaiyuejipgdaobkjiejideshkgcuntiaojipyi 
xiagongrkbipchkgchipinzhepinkunbirkkouhecaifuzkgchpgdehupyaokuaiyoucikeyimingxipdikpchu 
zichpjiejizaibunkgzuoshehuidetongzhijiejiliaozaibunkgbazijijiejideshkgcuntiaojipdpgzuozhipvyi 
qiedeguilvqipgjiayushehuiliaozichpjiejibunkgtongzhixiaquliaoyinwvtashkzhibunkgbaozhkgzijide 
nuliwvchinulideshkghuoyinwvtabudeburpgzijidkuliluodaobunkgypghuotafperyaotalaiypg 
huodedibushehuizaibunkgzaitatongzhixiashkghuoxiaquliaojiushishuotadecunzaibuzaitongshehuixipg 
rongliao 
     zichpjiejishkgcunhetongzhidegkbktiaojipshicaifuzaisirkshoulidejilvshizibkdexing 
chkghezkgzhizibkdetiaojipshiguyonglaodongguyonglaodongwpqupshijiplizaigongrkdezixipgjingzhkgzhishpg 
dezichpjiejiwuyizhongzaochkgeryouwulidikpgdegongyejinbushigongrktongguojiesheerdadaodege 
mingliphedaitiliaotamkyouyujingzhkgerzaochkgdefkspzhupgtaiyushisuizhuodagongyedefazhpzichp 
jiejilaiyishkgchphezhpyouchppindejichubkshkyejiucongtadejiaoxiabvwadiaoliaotashouxipshkgchpdeshi 
tazishkdejuemurkzichpjiejidemiewpghewuchpjiejideshkglishitongypgbukebimipde 
 
 
erwuchpzhehegongchpdpgrk 
      
      
     gongchpdpgrktongquptiwuchpzhedegupxishizkypgdke 
     gongchpdpgrkbushitongqitagongrkzhkgdpgxipgduilideteshuzhkgdpg 
      
      
      
     tamkmvyourkhetongzhkggewuchpjiejideliyibutongdeliyi 
     tamkbutichurkheteshudeyupzeyongyisuzaowuchpjiejideyundong 
     gongchpdpgrktongqitawuchpjiejizhkgdpgbutongdedifpgzhishiyifpgmipzaigeguowuchpzhede 
douzhkgzhonggongchpdpgrkqipgdiaohejipchizhkggewuchpjiejigongtongdebufkminzudeliyilingyifpgmip 
zaiwuchpjiejihezichpjiejidedouzhkgsuojinglidegegefazhpjiedupshpggongchpdpgrkshizhongdaibiaozhkgge 
yundongdeliyi 
     yincizaishijipfpgmipgongchpdpgrkshigeguogongrkzhkgdpgzhongzuijipjuedeshizhongqituidongzuo 
yongdebufkzaililunfpgmiptamkshkgguoqiyudewuchpjiejiqunzhongdedifpgzaiyutamkliaojiewuchp 
jiejiyundongdetiaojipjinchkgheyibpjieguo 
     gongchpdpgrkdezuijinmudeshiheqitayiqiewuchpjiejizhkgdpgdezuijinmudeyiypgdeshiwu 
chpjiejixingchkgwvjiejituifpzichpjiejidetongzhiyouwuchpjiejiduoquzhkgqup 
     gongchpdpgrkdelilunyuplijuebushiyizhegehuonageshijiegaigejiasuofaminghuofaxipdesi 
xipgyupzewvgkjude 
     zhexieyuplibuguoshixipzaidejiejidouzhkgwomkypqipdelishiyundongdezhkshigupxideyibp 
biaoshufvchuxipqipcunzaidesuoyouzhigupxibingbushigongchpzhuyisuodujudetezhkg 
     yiqiesuoyouzhigupxidujingliliaojingchpgdelishigkgtijingchpgdelishibipgkg 
     lirufaguogemingfvchuliaofkgjipdesuoyouzhidaizhiyizichpjiejidesuoyouzhi 
     gongchpzhuyidetezhkgbingbushiyaofvchuyibpdesuoyouzhiershiyaofvchuzichpjiejidesuoyou 
zhi 
     dpshixipdaidezichpjiejisiyouzhishijiplizaijiejiduilishpgmipjiplizaiyixierkduiling 
yixierkdebaoxiaoshpgmipdechppinshkgchphezhpyoudezuihoueryouzuiwpbvdebiaoxip 
     congzhegeyiyishpgshuogongchpdpgrkkeyibazijidelilungaikuowvyijuhuaxiaomiesiyouzhi 
     yourkzebvwomkgongchpdpgrkshuowomkyaoxiaomiegerkzhkgdedezijilaodongdelaidecaichp 
yaoxiaomiegouchkggerkdeyiqieziyouhuodonghedulidejichudecaichp 
     haoyigelaodongdelaidezijizhkgdedezijizhuplaidecaichpnimkshuodeshizichpjieji 
suoyouzhiyiqipdkazhongxiaozichpjiejidexiaonongdecaichpmpazhongcaichpyongbuzhuowomkquxiaomie 
gongyedefazhpyijingbataxiaomieliaoerqiemvtipduzaixiaomieta 
     huozhkimkshuodeshixipdaidezichpjiejidesiyoucaichpba 
     dpshinpdaoguyonglaodongwuchpzhedelaodonghuigvwuchpzhechupgzaochucaichplaimamvyou 
deshizhezhonglaodongsuochupgzaodeshizibkjibaoxiaoguyonglaodongdecaichpzhiyouzaibudupchpshkgchuxin 
deguyonglaodonglaizhongxinjiayibaoxiaodetiaojipxiacainkgzkgjiaqilaidecaichpxipjindezhezhongcaichpshizai 
zibkheguyonglaodongdeduilizhongyundongderpgwomklaikpkpzhezhongduilidelipggefpgmipba 
     zuoyigezibkjiazhejiushishuotazaishkgchpzhongbujinzhpyouyizhongchuncuigerkdediwver 
qiezhpyouyizhongshehuidediwvzibkshijitidechpwutazhiyoutongguoshehuixuduochkgyupdegongtonghuo 
dongerqieguigkdaodizhiyoutongguoshehuiquptichkgyupdegongtonghuodongcainkgyundongqilai 
     yincizibkbushiyizhonggerklilipgershiyizhongshehuililipg 
     yincibazibkbipwvgonggongdeshuyushehuiquptichkgyupdecaichpzhebingbushibagerkcai 
chpbipwvshehuicaichpzheshisuogaibipdezhishicaichpdeshehuixingzhitajipgshidiaotadejiejixingzhi 
      
      
      
     xipzaiwomklaikpkpguyonglaodong 
     guyonglaodongdepingjunjiageshizuidixipdudegongzijigongrkwvwvchiqigongrkdeshkghuosuobi 
xudeshkghuoziliaodeshueyinciguyonggongrkkaozijidelaodongsuozhpyoudedongxizhigoumipqipgwv 
chitadeshkgmingdezaishkgchpwomkjuebudasupxiaomiezhezhonggongzhijieshkgmingzaishkgchpyongdelaodongchppinde 
gerkzhpyouzhezhongzhpyoubingbuhuiliuxiarkheshkgyudedongxishirkmkyoukkkgzhipvbierkdelaodong 
womkyaoxiaomiedezhishizhezhongzhpyoudekelipdexingzhizaizhezhongzhpyouxiagongrkjinjinwvzkgzhizibk 
erhuozhuozhiyouzaitongzhijiejideliyixuyaotahuozhuodeshihoucainkghuozhuo 
  zaizichpjiejishehuilihuodelaodongzhishizkgzhiyijingjilvqilaidelaodongdeyizhongshoudupzaigong 
chpzhuyishehuiliyijingjilvqilaidelaodongzhishikuodafkgfuhetigaogongrkdeshkghuodeyizhongshou 
dup 
     yincizaizichpjiejishehuilishiguoquzhipvxipzaizaigongchpzhuyishehuilishixipzaizhipv 
guoquzaizichpjiejishehuilizibkjuyoudulixinghegexingerhuodongzhuodegerkquemvyouduli 
xinghegexing 
     erzichpjiejiquebaxiaomiezhezhonggupxishuochkgshixiaomiegexingheziyoushuoduiliaodequezhkg 
shiyaoxiaomiezichpzhedegexingdulixingheziyou 
     zaixipjindezichpjiejishkgchpgupxidefpwvnvsuowvziyoujiushiziyoumaoyiziyoumaimai 
     dpshimaimaiyixiaoshiziyoumaimaiyejiuhuixiaoshigupyuziyoumaimaideyplunyexipgwo 
mkdezichpjiejideqitayiqiegupyuziyoudedahuayiypgjinjinduiyubuziyoudemaimailaishuodui 
yuzhongshijibvnuyideshiminlaishuocaishiyouyiyideerduiyugongchpzhuyiyaoxiaomiemaimaixiaomie 
zichpjiejishkgchpgupxihezichpjiejibkshkzheyidiplaishuoqueshihaowuyiyide 
     womkyaoxiaomiesiyouzhinimkjiujinghupgqilaidpshizainimkdexipcunshehuilisiyou 
caichpduishifkzhijiudechkgyuplaishuoyijingbvxiaomieliaozhezhongsiyouzhizhisuoyicunzaizhkgshiyinwvsi 
youcaichpduishifkzhijiudechkgyuplaishuoyijingbucunzaikejipnimkzebvwomkshishuowomkyaoxiao 
mikazhongyishehuishpgdejuedaduoshurkmvyoucaichpwvbiyaotiaojipdesuoyouzhi 
     zongerypzhinimkzebvwomkshishuowomkyaoxiaomikimkdkazhongsuoyouzhidequewo 
mkshiyaozheypgzuode 
     conglaodongbuzainkgbipwvzibkhuobidizuyijuhuabuzainkgbipwvkeyilongdupdeshe 
huililipgdeshihouqijiushishuoconggerkcaichpbuzainkgbipwvzichpjiejicaichpdeshihouqinimk 
shuogexingjiubvxiaomieliao 
     youcikejipnimkshichkgrknimksuolijiedegexingbuwaishizichpzhezichpjiejisi 
youzhezheypgdegexingqueshiyingdpgbvxiaomie 
     gongchpzhuyibingbubaoduorkherkzhpyoushehuichppindequplitazhibaoduoliyongzhezhongzhpyouqu 
nuyitarklaodongdequpli 
     yourkfpboshuosiyouzhiyixiaomieyiqiehuodongjiuhuitingzhilpduozhifkgjiuhuixingqi 
     zheypgshuolaizichpjiejishehuizaojiuyinggaiyinlpduoermiewpgliaoyinwvzaizhegeshehuilishi 
laozhebuhuohuozhebulaodesuoyouzhexiegulvdukeyiguijiewvzheypgyigetongyifpfuyidp 
mvyouzibkyejiubuzaiyouguyonglaodongliao 
     suoyouzhexieduigongchpzhuyidewuzhichppindezhpyoufpgshiheshkgchpfpgshidezebv                             yebvkuoji 
 
 
 
daojingshkchppindezhpyouheshkgchpfpgmipzhkgrujiejidesuoyouzhidezhongzhizaizichpzhekplaishishkgchpbk 
shkdezhongzhiyiypgjiejidejiaoyudezhongzhizaitamkkplaijiudkgyuyiqiejiaoyudezhongzhi 
     zichpzhewvkongshiqudkazhongjiaoyuduijuedaduoshurklaishuoshibarkxunlipchkgjiqi 
     dpshinimkjirpyongnimkzichpjiejigupyuziyoujiaoyufadkgdkgdegupniplaihkglipgfv 
chuzichpjiejisuoyouzhidezhuzhpgnajiuqingnimkbuyaotongwomkzhkglunliaonimkdegupnipbkshkshizi 
chpjiejideshkgchpgupxihesuoyouzhigupxidechpwuzhkgxipgnimkdefabuguoshibvfkgwvfalvdkimk 
zhegejiejideyizhiyiypgerzhezhongyizhidkvrongshiyounimkzhegejiejidewuzhishkghuotiaojiplaijue 
dingde 
     nimkdelijigupnipshinimkbazijideshkgchpgupxihesuoyouzhigupxiconglishidezaishkgchp 
guochkgzhongshizpshidegupxibipchkgyonghkgdezirpguilvhelixingguilvzhezhonglijigupnipshinimkheyi 
qiemiewpgliaodetongzhijiejisuogongyoudetpdaogudaisuoyouzhideshihounimksuonkglijiedetpdaofkg 
jipsuoyouzhideshihounimksuonkglijiedeyitpdaozichpjiejisuoyouzhinimkjiuzaiyebunkglijie 
liao 
     xiaomiejiatinglipjidupdejijinpaiyeduigongchpdpgrkdezhezhongkechideyitubiaoshifkkai 
     xipdaidezichpjiejidejiatingshijiplizaishimejichushpgdkeshijiplizaizibkshpgmip 
jiplizaisirkfacaishpgmipdezhezhongjiatingzhishizaizichpjiejinalicaiyichongfkfazhpdexingshicunzai 
zhuoerwuchpzhedebvpodujuhegongkaidemaiyinzeshitadebuchong 
     zichpzhedejiatingzirphuisuizhuotadezhezhongbuchongdexiaoshierxiaoshilipgzheduyaosuizhuozibk 
dexiaoshierxiaoshi 
     nimkshizebvwomkyaoxiaomiefumuduizinvdebaoxiaomawomkchkgrkzhezhongzuizhupg 
     dpshinimkshuowomkyongshehuijiaoyudaitijiatingjiaoyujiushiyaoxiaomierkmkzuiqinmide 
gupxi 
     ernimkdejiaoyubuyeshiyoushehuijuedingdemabuyeshiyounimkjinxingjiaoyudkazhongshehui 
gupxijuedingdemabuyeshiyoushehuitongguoxuexiaodkgdkgjinxingdezhijiedehuojipjiedegpshejuedingde 
magongchpdpgrkbingmvyoufamingshehuiduijiaoyudeyingxipgtamkjinjinshiyaogaibipzhezhongyingxipgdexing 
zhiyaoshijiaoyubaituotongzhijiejideyingxipg 
     wuchpzhedeyiqiejiatinglipxiyueshiyouyudagongyedefazhperbvpohuaitamkdezinvyueshi 
youyuzhezhongfazhperbvbipchkgdpchundeshpgpinhelaodonggongjuzichpjiejigupyujiatinghejiaoyugupyu 
fumuhezinvdeqinmigupxidekonghuajiuyueshilingrkzuoou 
     dpshinimkgongchpdpgrkshiyaoshixinggongqizhidea----zhkggezichpjiejiyikoutongshkgdixipg 
womkzheypgjiaohp 
     zichpzheshibazijideqizikpzuodpchundeshkgchpgongjudetamktingshuoshkgchpgongjujipgyaogong 
gongshiyongzirpjiubunkgbuxipgdaofunvyehuizaodaotongypgdemingyun 
     tamkxipgyemvyouxipgdaowktizhkgzaiyushifunvbuzaichuyudpchunshkgchpgongjudediwv 
     qishiwomkdezichpzhezhupgdedaomaoprpduisuowvdegongchpdpgrkdezhkgshigongqizhibiaoshi 
jingypashizaikexiaobuguoliaogongqizhiwuxugongchpdpgrklaishixingtachabuduoshiyixipgjiuyoude 
     womkdezichpzhebuyitamkdewuchpzhedeqizihkvershoutamkzhipvwvmpzuzhkgshide 
maiyingkgbubishuoliaotamkhupyihuxipgyoujipqiziwvzuidadexipgle 
      
      
      
     zichpjiejidehunyinshijishpgshigongqizhirkmkzhiduozhinkgzebvgongchpdpgrkshuotamkxipg 
yongzhkgshidegongkaidegongqizhilaidaitiwvshpdiypbizhuodegongqizhiqishibuyperyusuizhuo 
xipzaideshkgchpgupxidexiaomiecongzhezhonggupxizhongchpshkgdegongqizhijizhkgshidehefvzhkgshidemai 
yinyejiuxiaoshiliao 
     hupyourkzebvgongchpdpgrkshuotamkyaoquxiaozuguoquxiaominzu 
     gongrkmvyouzuguojuebunkgbaoduotamksuomvyoudedongxiyinwvwuchpjiejishouxipbixuqu 
dezhkgzhitongzhishpgshkgwvminzudejiejibazishkzuzhichkgwvminzusuoyitabkshkhupshiminzude 
suirpwpqupbushizichpjiejisuolijiedkazhongyisi 
     suizhuozichpjiejidefazhpsuizhuomaoyiziyoudeshixipheshijieshichpgdejiplisuizhuogongye 
shkgchpyijiyuzhixipgshiyingdeshkghuotiaojipdequyuyizhigeguorkminzhijipdeminzugejueheduiliri 
yixiaoshi 
     wuchpjiejidetongzhijipgshitamkgkgkuaidixiaoshiliphedexingdongzhishaoshigewkmingguojiade 
liphedexingdongshiwuchpjiejihuodejiefpgdeshouyaotiaojipzhiyi 
     rkduirkdebaoxiaoyixiaomieminzuduiminzudebaoxiaojiuhuisuizhixiaomie 
     minzunvbudejiejiduiliyixiaoshiminzuzhijipdediduigupxijiuhuisuizhixiaoshi 
     congzongjiaodezhexuedeheyibpyishixingtaidegupdipduigongchpzhuyitichudezhongzhongzkpdu 
buzhidexipgxitaolunliao 
     rkmkdegupnipgupdiphegainipyiminghuarkmkdeyishisuizhuorkmkdeshkghuotiaojip 
rkmkdeshehuigupxirkmkdeshehuicunzaidegaibipergaibipzhkpdaoxuyaojingguoshksicainkgliaojie 
ma 
     sixipgdelishichuliaozhkgmingjingshkshkgchpsuizhuowuzhishkgchpdegaizaoergaizaohupzhkgmingliaoshime 
nerkheyigeshidaidetongzhisixipgshizhongdubuguoshitongzhijiejidesixipg 
     dpgrkmktpdaoshizhkggeshehuigeminghuadesixipgshitamkzhishibiaomingliaoyigeshishizaijiu 
shehuinvbuyijingxingchkgliaoxinshehuideyinsujiusixipgdewajieshitongjiushkghuotiaojipdewajiebudiaoyi 
zhide 
     dpggudaishijiezouxipgmiewpgdeshihougudaidegezhongzongjiaojiubvjidujiaozhpshkgliaodpgjidu 
jiaosixipgzai     18 shijibvqimkgsixipgjibaideshihoufkgjipshehuizhkgzaitongdpgshigemingdezichpjieji 
jinxingshusidedouzhkgxinypgziyouhezongjiaoziyoudesixipgbuguobiaomingziyoujingzhkgzaixinypgdelingyu 
lizhptongzhidiwvbaliao 
         dpshiyourkhuishuozongjiaodedaodedezhexuedezhkgzhidefadegupnipdkgdkg 
zailishifazhpdejinchkgzhonggurpshibudupgaibipdeerzongjiaodaodezhexuezhkgzhihefazaizhezhong 
biphuazhongqueshizhongbaocunzhuo 
      ciwaihupcunzaizhuoyiqieshehuizhupgtaisuogongyoudeyonghkgdezhkliruziyouzhkgyidkgdkg 
dpshigongchpzhuyiyaofvchuyonghkgzhklitayaofvchuzongjiaodaodeerbushijiayigexinsuoyigong 
chpzhuyishitongzhijindequpbulishifazhpjinchkgxipgmaodunde                       
      zhezhongzkpguijiewvshimkezhijindeyiqieshehuidelishidushizaijiejiduilizhongyundong 
deerzhezhongduilizaigegebutongdeshidaijuyoubutongdexingshi 
      dpshibugupjiejiduilijuyoushimeypgdexingshishehuishpgyibufkrkduilingyibufkrk 
 
 
 
debaoxiaoqueshiguoqugegeshijisuogongyoudeshishiyincihaobuqiguaigegeshijideshehuiyishi 
jingupxingxingseseqipchawpbiezongshizaimouxiegongtongdexingshizhongyundongdezhexiexingshizhexieyi 
shixingshizhiyoudpgjiejiduiliwpqupxiaoshideshihoucaihuiwpqupxiaoshi 
      gongchpzhuyigemingjiushitongchuptongdesuoyouzhigupxishixingzuichedidejueliehaobuqiguai 
tazaizijidefazhpjinchkgzhongyaotongchuptongdegupnipshixingzuichedidejuelie 
      buguowomkhupshibazichpjiejiduigongchpzhuyidezhongzhongzkppiekaiba 
      qipmipwomkyijingkpdaogongrkgemingdediyibujiushishiwuchpjiejishpgshkgwvtongzhijie 
jizhkgdeminzhu 
      wuchpjiejijipgliyongzijidezhkgzhitongzhiyibuyibudiduoquzichpjiejidequpbuzi 
bkbayiqieshkgchpgongjujizhongzaiguojiajizuzhichkgwvtongzhijiejidewuchpjiejishoulibingqiejinke 
nkgkuaidizkgjiashkgchplidezonglipg 
      yaozuodaozheyidipdpgrpshouxipbixuduisuoyouquphezichpjiejishkgchpgupxishixingqipgzhixing 
degpsheyejiushicaiquzheypgyixiecuoshizhexiecuoshizaijingjishpgsihushibugouchongfkdehemvyou 
lilipgdedpshizaiyundongjinchkgzhongtamkhuiyuechubkshkerqiezuowvbipgequpbushkgchpfpgshideshoudup 
shibibukeshaode 
     zhexiecuoshizaibutongdeguojialidpgrphuishibutongde 
      dpshizuixipjindeguojiajihudukeyicaiquxiamipdecuoshi 
       1baoduodichpbadizuyongyuguojiazhichu 
       2zhkgshougaoelvjinshui 
       3fvchujichkgqup 
       4mvshouyiqieliuwpgfkzihepplupfkzidecaichp 
       5tongguoyongyouguojiazibkheduxipglongdupqupdeguojiayinxingbaxindaijizhongzaiguojiashouli 
       6baqupbuyunshuyejizhongzaiguojiashouli 
       7pzhaozongdejihuazkgjiaguoyinggongchpgheshkgchpgongjukaikkhupgdihegailipgturpg 
       8shixingpubiplaodongyiwuzhichkglichpyejuntebieshizainongyefpgmip 
       9bpongyehegongyejieheqilaicushichkgxipgduilizhubuxiaomie 
       10duisuoyouertongshixinggonggongdehemipfvdejiaoyuquxiaoxipzaizhezhongxingshideertongdegong 
chpglaodongbajiaoyutongwuzhishkgchpjieheqilaidkgdkg 
      dpgjiejichabiezaifazhpjinchkgzhongyijingxiaoshierqupbushkgchpjizhongzailipheqilaidegerkde 
shoulideshihougonggongquplijiushiquzhkgzhixingzhiyuplaiyiyishpgdezhkgzhiquplishiyigejiejiyong 
yiyapolingyigejiejideyouzuzhidebaoliruguoshuowuchpjiejizaifpduizichpjiejidedouzhkgzhongyi 
dingyaoliphewvjiejiruguoshuotatongguogemingshizijichkgwvtongzhijiejibingyitongzhijiejidezige 
yongbaolixiaomiejiudeshkgchpgupxinametazaixiaomiezhezhongshkgchpgupxidetongshiyejiuxiaomieliaojieji 
duilihejiejibkshkdecunzaitiaojipcongerxiaomieliaotazijizhegejiejidetongzhi 
   daitinacunzaizhuojiejihejiejiduilidezichpjiejijiushehuidejipgshizheypgyigelipheti 
zainalimvgerkdeziyoufazhpshiyiqierkdeziyoufazhpdetiaojip 
 
 
spshehuizhuyidehegongchpzhuyidewkxip 
 
 
 
 
 
1fpdongdeshehuizhuyi 
 
 
(jia)fkgjipdeshehuizhuyi 
    
    
   faguoheyingguodeguizupzhaotamkdelishidiwvsuofudeshimingjiushixieyixiepkgjixipdai 
zichpjiejishehuidezuopinzaifaguode               1830 nipqiyuegemingheyingguodegaigeyundongzhongtamkzai 
yicibvkehkdebaofahudabailiaocongcijiuzaitpbushpgypzhongdezhkgzhidouzhkgliaotamkhupnkgjinxing 
dezhishiwkzidouzhkgdpshijishizaiwkzifpgmipyebukkkgzhongdpfubishiqidelaodiaoliaowvliao 
jiqitongqingguizumkbudebuzhupgmozuoypgsihutamkyijingbugupxinzishkdeliyizhishiwvliao 
bvbaoxiaodegongrkjiejideliyicaiquxieduizichpjiejidekongsushutamkyonglaixiefkdeshoudupshi 
chpgchpgzuzhoutamkdexintongzhizhedegebingxipgtajijigugudishuoyixiehuoduohuoshaoxiongxipdeyuyp 
     zheypgjiuchpshkgliaofkgjipdeshehuizhuyibpshiwpgebpshibpgwkbpshiguoqudehuiyin 
bpshiwvlaidedongxiatayoushiykkgyongxinlaqiaopierjipkedepingluncizhongzichpjiejidexindp 
shitayouyuwpqupbunkglijiexipdailishidejinchkgerzongshilingrkgpdaokexiao 
     wvliaolalongrkminguizumkbawuchpjiejideqishidaidpgzuoqizhilaihuiwudpshimvdpg 
rkmingkzhuotamkzoudeshihoudufaxiptamkdetunbudaiyoujiudefkgjipwkzhpgyushijiuhahada 
xiaoyihongersp 
     yibufkfaguozhkgtongpaiheqingnipyingguoduypguozhechuxi 
     fkgjipzhushuotamkdebaoxiaofpgshihezichpjiejidebaoxiaobutongnatamkzhishiwpgjiliao 
tamkshizaiwpqupbutongdemuqipyijingguoshideqingkupghetiaojipxiajinxingbaoxiaodetamkshuozaita 
mkdetongzhixiabingmvyouchuxipguoxipdaidewuchpjiejinatamkzhishiwpgjiliaoxipdaidezichpjieji 
zhkgshitamkdeshehuizhidudebirpchpwu 
     buguotamkhaobuypshizijidepipingdefpdongxingzhitamkkonggaozichpjiejidezhuyaozui 
zhupgzhkgshizaiyuzaizichpjiejidetongzhixiayouyigejipgbazhkggejiushehuizhiduzhahuidejiejifazhpqi 
lai 
     tamkzebvzichpjiejiyuqishuoshiyinwvtachpshkgliaowuchpjiejiburushuoshiyinwvtachp 
shkgliaogemingdewuchpjieji 
     yincizaizhkgzhishijipzhongtamkcpyuduigongrkjiejicaiqudeyiqiebaolicuoshizairichpg 
shkghuozhongtamkwvbvzijidkayitaogupmiptpghupgdeypciquzunshiqujinpingguobuguxinyi 
rkaihemingyuquzuoypgmaotipcaiheshaojiudemaimai 
   zhkgruskglvzongshitongfkgjipzhuxieshoutongxingyiypgskglvdeshehuizhuyiyezongshitongfkgjipdeshehui 
zhuyixieshoutongxingde 
   yaogvjidujiaojinyuzhuyitushpgyickgshehuizhuyidesecaishizairongyibuguoliaojidujiaobu 
shiyejiliefpduisiyouzhifpduihunyinfpduiguojiamatabushitichpgyongxingshpheqiuqidushk 
hejinyuxiudaohelibailaidaitizheyiqiemajidujiaodeshehuizhuyizhibuguoshiskglvyonglaishi 
guizudeyupfkshkshkghuadeshkgshuibaliao 
 
 
 
 
 
(yi)xiaozichpjiejideshehuizhuyi 
      
     fkgjipguizubingbushibvzichpjiejisuotuifpdeqishkghuotiaojipzaixipdaizichpjiejishehuili 
riyiehuahexiaoshidewvyijiejizhongshijidechkggupshimindkgjihexiaonongdkgjishixipdaizichpjieji 
deqipshkzaigongshpgyebuhkfadadeguojializhegejiejihupzaixinxingdezichpjiejishkppgmipqipgshkg 
cunzhuo 
      zaixipdaiwkmingyijingfazhpdeguojiali,xingchkgliaoyigexindexiaozichpjiejitayaobaiyuwu 
chpjiejihezichpjiejizhijipbingqiezuowvzichpjiejishehuidebuchongbufkbudupdizhongxinzuchkgdp 
shizheyijiejidechkgyupjingchpgbvjingzhkgpaodaowuchpjiejiduiwuliquerqiesuizhuodagongyedefa 
zhptamkshkzhijuechadaotamkhkkuaijiuhuiwpqupshiqutamkzuowvxipdaishehuizhongyigedulibufk 
dediwvzaishpgyegongyehkongyezhonghkkuaijiuhuibvjipgongheguyupsuodaiti 
      zainongminjiejiyupyupchaoguorkkoubpshudeguojialiruzaifaguonaxiezhpzaiwuchpjieji 
fpgmipfpduizichpjiejidezhuzuojiazirpshiyongxiaozichpjiejihexiaonongdechiduqupippzichpjieji 
zhidudeshicongxiaozichpjiejidelichpgchufatigongrkshuohuadezheypgjiuxingchkgliaoxiaozichpjiejide 
shehuizhuyixisimkgdibujinduifaguoerqieduiyingguolaishuodushizhelvzhuzuojiadeshouling 
      zhezhongshehuizhuyifvchpgtouchedifkxiliaoxipdaishkgchpgupxizhongdemaoduntajiechupliaojingji 
xuejiadexuwvdefkshitaquezaodizhkgmingliaojiqihefkgongdepohuaizuoyongzibkhedichpdeji 
jushkgchpguoshkgwvjixiaozichpzhehexiaonongdebirpmvluowuchpjiejidepinkunshkgchpdewu 
zhkgfuzhupgtaicaifufkpvdejibupingjungeminzuzhijipdehuimiexingdegongyezhpzhkgyijijiufkgshpg 
jiujiatinggupxihejiuminzuxingdejieti 
      dpshizhezhongshehuizhuyipqishijinvronglaishuohuozheshiqituhuifujiudeshkgchpshuju 
hejiaohupshoudupcongerhuifujiudesuoyouzhigupxihejiudeshehuihuozheshiqituzhongxinbaxipdaideshkg 
chpshujuhejiaohupshoudupyingsaidaoyibvtamktupoerqiebirpbvtupodejiudesuoyouzhigupxidekupg 
ziliqutazaizhelipgzhongchpghedushifpdongdetongshiyoushikongxipgde 
     gongyezhongdexinghuizhidunongyezhongdezongfajingji----zhejiushitadezuihoujielun 
      zheyisichaozaitayihoudefazhpzhongbipchkgliaoyizhongqikuodebvtp 
 
 
(bing)deguodehuozhkzhkgdeshehuizhuyi 
       
      faguodeshehuizhuyihegongchpzhuyidewkxipshizaijuyutongzhidiwvdezichpjiejideyapo 
xiachpshkgdebingqieshitongzhezhongtongzhizuodouzhkgdewkzibiaoxipzhezhongwkxipbvbpdaodeguodeshihou 
nalidezichpjiejicaigpggpgkaishijinxingfpduifkgjipzhupzhizhidudedouzhkg 
      deguodezhexuejiabpzhexuejiahemvwkxuejiatplpdizhuazhuliaozhezhongwkxipbuguota 
mkwpgjiliaozaizhezhongzhuzuocongfaguobpdaodeguodeshihoufaguodeshkghuotiaojipquemvyoutongshibpguo 
quzaideguodetiaojipxiafaguodewkxipwpqupshiquliaozhijieshijipdeyiyierzhijuyouchuncuiwk 
xipdexingshitabirpbiaoxipwvgupyuzhkzhkgdeshehuigupyushixiprkdebkzhidewuwvsibipzheypg 
diyicifaguogemingdeyaoqiuzai             18 shijidedeguozhexuejiakplaibuguoshiyibpshijiplixing 
 
 
 
deyaoqiuergemingdefaguozichpjiejideyizhidebiaoxipzaitamkxinmuzhongjiushichuncuiyizhibk 
laideyizhizhkzhkgrkdeyizhideguilv 
      deguozhuzuojiadewvyigongzuojiushibaxindefaguodesixipgtongtamkdejiudezhexuexinypg 
diaoheqilaihuozhewuningshuojiushicongtamkdezhexuegupdipchufaquzhpgwofaguodesixipg 
      zhezhongzhpgwojiuxipgzhpgwowaiguoyuyiypgshitongguofpyide 
      dajiazhidaoskglvmkzkgjingzaigudaiyijiaojingdipdeshouchaobkshpgmipxieshpghupgdpdetipzhujiao 
shkgtuchupdeguozhuzuojiaduishisudefaguowkxipcaiquxipgfpdezuofatamkzaifaguodeyupzhuxiamip 
xieshpgzijidezhexuehushuolirutamkzaifaguorkduihuobigupxidepippxiamipxieshpgrkdebk 
zhidewaihuazaifaguorkduizichpjiejiguojiadepippxiamipxieshpgsuowvchouxipgpubipwudetongzhide 
ypgqidkgdkg 
      zhezhongzaifaguorkdelunshuxiamipsaijinzijizhexuecijudezuofatamkchkgzhiwvxingdongde 
zhexuezhkzhkgdeshehuizhuyideguodeshehuizhuyikexueshehuizhuyidezhexuelunzhkgdkg 
dkg 
      faguodeshehuizhuyihegongchpzhuyidewkxipjiuzheypgbvwpqupypgeliaojirpzhezhongwkxip 
zaideguorkshouliyibuzaibiaoxipyigejiejifpduilingyigejiejidedouzhkgyushideguorkjiurkwv 
tamkkefuliaofaguorkdepipmipxingtamkbudaibiaozhkshideyaoqiuerdaibiaozhklideyaoqiubu 
daibiaowuchpzhedeliyierdaibiaorkdebkzhideliyijiyibprkdeliyizhezhongrkbushuyurk 
hejiejigkbkbucunzaiyuxipshijieerzhicunzaiyuyunwumimpdezhexuehupxipgdetaikong 
      zhezhongzkgjingzhkgzhongqishidikpdaizijinayitaozhuoliedexiaoxueshkgzuoyebingqiedaypbucpdi 
jiayichuixudedeguoshehuizhuyixipzaijipjipshiquliaotadezixupboxuedetipzhk 
      deguodetebieshipulushidezichpjiejifpduifkgjipzhuhezhupzhiwpgchaodedouzhkgyiju 
huaziyouzhuyiyundongyuelaiyueypzhongliao 
      yushizhkzhkgdeshehuizhuyijiudedaoliaoyigehaojihuibashehuizhuyideyaoqiutongzhkg 
zhiyundongduiliqilaiyongzuzhouyidupxieshuodechuptongbpfazuzhouziyouzhuyizuzhoudaiyizhiguojia 
zuzhouzichpjiejidejingzhkgzichpjiejidexinwkchubpziyouzichpjiejidefazichpjiejidezi 
youhepingdkgbingqiexipgrkminqunzhongdasixupypgshuoshimezaizhegezichpjiejiyundongzhongrkminqunzhong 
fvdpyiwusuodefperhuishiquyiqiedeguodeshehuizhuyiqiahaowpgjiliaofaguodepipp(de 
guodeshehuizhuyishizhezhongpippdekelipdehuishkg)shiyixipdaidezichpjiejishehuiyijixipgyingdewu 
zhishkghuotiaojiphexipgdpgdezhkgzhizhiduwvqiptideerzheyiqieqiptidpgshizaideguozhkgshishpgdaizhkgqu 
de 
      zhezhongshehuizhuyichkgliaodeyizhigebpgzhupzhizhkgfujiqisuicong----skglvjiaoyuprongkehe 
gupliaoqiuzhibudedexiahulaishixiongxiongdezichpjiejidedaocaork 
      zhezhongshehuizhuyishizhexiezhkgfuyonglaizhkyadeguogongrkqiyideduladepibipheqipgdpde 
tipmidebuchong 
      jirpzhkzhkgdeshehuizhuyijiuzheypgchkgliaozhexiezhkgfuduifudeguozichpjiejidewuqi 
nametayejiuzhijiedaibiaoliaoyizhongfpdongdeliyijideguoxiaoshimindeliyizaideguo16                                 shi 
jiyiliuxialaidecongnashiqijingchpgyibutongxingshizhongxinchuxipdexiaozichpjiejishixipcunzhidude 
zhkshideshehuijichu 
        
        
        
       baocunzhegexiaozichpjiejijiushibaocundeguodexipcunzhiduzhegejiejidpzhpxinjingdi 
congzichpjiejidegongyetongzhihezhkgzhitongzhinalidkghouzhuowukexingmipdemiewpgzheyifpgmipshiyouyu 
zibkdejijulingyifpgmipshiyouyugemingwuchpjiejidexingqizaitakplaizhkzhkgdeshehuizhu 
yinkgqiyijipshupgdiaodezuoyongzhkzhkgdeshehuizhuyixipgwkyiyiypgliuxingqilailiao 
      deguodeshehuizhuyizhegvzijidkajitiaogpbiedeyonghkgzhklipishpgyijipyongsibipde 
zhusizhichkgdexiumphualicizaodehuaduohejintoutipqingmiyidegpludewaiyizhejipgupgcaiduomu 
dewaiyizhishishitamkdehuowuzaizhexiegukezhongjipzkgjiaxiaolubaliao 
      tongshideguodeshehuizhuyiyeyuelaiyuerkshidaozijideshimingjiushichongdpgzhezhongxiaoshimin 
dekuakuaqitpdedaiyprk 
      taxupbudeyizhiminzushimofpdeminzudeguoxiaoshiminshimofpderktagvzhexiexiao 
shimindemvyizhongchouxingdujiashpgaomidegaoshpgdeshehuizhuyideyiyishizhibipchkgwpqupxipgfp 
dedongxitafazhpdaozuihoujiuzhijiefpduigongchpzhuyideyemppohuaideqingxipgbingqiexupbuzi 
jishibupipbuyidechaohurkhejiejidouzhkgzhishpgdexipjinzaideguoliuxingdeyiqiesuowvshehuizhuyi 
hegongchpzhuyidezhuzuochuliaojishaoshudeliwaidushuyuzheyilvbvbiwochuodelingrkwvmide 
wkxip 
 
 
2baoshoudehuozichpjiejideshehuizhuyi 
      zichpjiejizhongdeyibufkrkxipgyaoxiaochushehuidebibingyibipbaozhpgzichpjiejishehuide 
shkgcun 
      zheyibufkrkbaokuojingjixuejiaboaizhuyizherkdaozhuyizhelaodongjiejizhupgkupg 
gaishppaicishpshiyezuzhizhedongwubaohuxiehuihuiyupjiejiuxiehuifaqirkyijixingxingshisese 
dexiaogailipgjiazhezhongzichpjiejideshehuizhuyishkzhibvzhichkgyixiewpzhkgdetixi 
      womkkeyijupuludongdepinkundezhexuezuowvlizi 
      shehuizhuyidezichpzheyupyiyaoxipdaishehuideshkgcuntiaojipdpshibuyaoyouzhexietiaojipbi 
rpchpshkgdedouzhkghewvxiptamkyupyiyaoxipcundeshehuidpshibuyaonaxieshizhegeshehuigeminghua 
hewajiedeyinsutamkyupyiyaozichpjiejidpshibuyaowuchpjiejizaizichpjiejikplaita 
suotongzhideshijiezirpshizuimvhaodeshijiezichpjiejideshehuizhuyibazhezhongpwvrkxindegupnip 
zhichkgbptaohuozhkgtaodetixitayaoqiuwuchpjiejishixiptadetixizoujinxindeyelusalkgqi 
shitabuguoshiyaoqiuwuchpjiejitingliuzaixipjindeshehuilidpshiyaopaoqitamkgupyuzhegeshehuide 
keedegupnip 
      zhezhongshehuizhuyidelingyizhongbugouxitongdpshibijiaoshijidexingshilitushigongrkjie 
jiypqiyiqiegemingyundongyingshuonkggvgongrkjiejidailaihaochudebingbushizheypghuonaypgdezhkgzhigai 
geerjinjinshiwuzhishkghuotiaojipjijingjigupxidegaibipdpshizhezhongshehuizhuyisuolijiedewu 
zhishkghuotiaojipdegaibipjueduibushizhiyoutongguogemingdetujingcainkgshixipdezichpjiejishkgchpgupxi 
dexiaomieershiyixiexingzhkgshpgdegailipgzhexiegailipgshizaizhezhongshkgchpgupxidejichushpgshixingde 
yinersihaobuhuigaibipzibkheguyonglaodongdegupxizhiduozhinkgjipshaozichpjiejidetongzhifvyonghe 
jiphuatadecaizhkggupli 
      zichpjiejideshehuizhuyizhiyouzaitabipchkgchuncuideypshuocilingdeshihoucaihuodeziji 
 
 
 
deshidpgdebiaoxip 
      ziyoumaoyiwvliaogongrkjiejideliyibaohugupshuiwvliaogongrkjiejideliyidp 
shklaofpgwvliaogongrkjiejideliyi----zhecaishizichpjiejideshehuizhuyiwvyirkzhkshuochude 
zuihoudehua 
      zichpjiejideshehuizhuyijiushizheypgyigelundupzichpzhezhiwvzichpzheshiwvliaogong 
rkjiejideliyi 
3pippdekongxipgdeshehuizhuyihegongchpzhuyi 
      zaizheliwomkbutpzaixipdaiyiqiedagemingzhongbiaodaguowuchpjiejiyaoqiudewkxip(babv 
fudkgrkdezhuzuo) 
     wuchpjiejizaipubipjidongdeshidaizaituifpfkgjipshehuideshiqizhijieshixipzijijiejili 
yidezuichuchpgshidubukebimipdizaodaoliaoshibaizheshiyouyudpgshiwuchpjiejibkshkhupbugoufa 
zhpyouyuwuchpjiejijiefpgdewuzhitiaojiphupmvyoujubvzhexietiaojipzhishizichpjiejishidaidechp 
wusuizhuozhexiezaoqidewuchpjiejiyundongerchuxipdegemingwkxipjiuqinvronglaishuobirpshifpdong 
dezhezhongwkxipchpgdaopubipdejinyuzhuyiheculoudepingjunzhuyi 
      bklaiyiyideshehuizhuyihegongchpzhuyidetixishkgximkfuliyeouwkdkgrkde 
tixishizaiwuchpjiejihezichpjiejizhijipdedouzhkghupbufazhpdezuichushiqichuxipdegupyuzhe 
geshiqiwomkzaiqipmipyijingxushuguoliao(jipzichpjiejihewuchpjieji) 
      chkgrpzhexietixidefamingjiakpdaoliaojiejideduiliyijizhptongzhidiwvdeshehuibk 
shkzhongdewajieyinsudezuoyongdpshitamkkpbudaowuchpjiejifpgmipderkhelishizhudongxingkp 
budaotasuoteyouderkhezhkgzhiyundong 
      youyujiejiduilidefazhpshitonggongyedefazhpbudiaoyizhidesuoyizhexiefamingjiayebu 
kkkgkpdaowuchpjiejijiefpgdewuzhitiaojipyushitamkjiuqutpqiumouzhongshehuikexueshehuigui 
lvyibipchupgzaozhexietiaojip 
      shehuidehuodongyaoyoutamkgerkdefaminghuodonglaidaitijiefpgdelishitiaojipyaoyouhupxipg 
detiaojiplaidaitiwuchpjiejidezhubuzuzhichkgwvjiejiyaoyoutamkteyishejichulaideshehuizuzhi 
laidaitizaitamkkplaijinhoudeshijielishibuguoshixupchupheshishitamkdeshehuijihua 
      chkgrptamkyeyishidaotamkdejihuazhuyaoshidaibiaogongrkjiejizheyishoukuzuishkde 
jiejideliyizaitamkdexinmuzhongwuchpjiejizhishiyigeshoukuzuishkdejieji 
      dpshiyouyujiejidouzhkgbufazhpyouyutamkbkshkdeshkghuozhupgkupgtamkjiuyiwvzi 
jishigaogaochaohuzhezhongjiejiduilizhishpgdetamkyaogaishpshehuiyiqiechkgyupdeshkghuozhupgkupgshkzhi 
shkghuozuiyouyudechkgyupyebaokuozainvyincitamkzongshibujiaqubiedixipgzhkggeshehuihuyuer 
qiezhuyaoshixipgtongzhijiejihuyutamkyiwvrkmkzhiyaolijietamkdetixijiuhuichkgrkzhezhong 
tixishizuimvhaodeshehuidezuimvhaodejihua 
      yincitamkjujueyiqiezhkgzhixingdongtebieshiyiqiegemingxingdongtamkxipgtongguoheping 
detujingdadaozijidemudebingqieqitutongguoyixiexiaoxingdedpgrpbuhuichkggongdeshiyptongguo 
shifpdelilipglaiwvxindeshehuifuyinkaibidaolu 
      zhezhongduiwvlaishehuidehupxipgdemiaohuishizaiwuchpjiejihuphkbufazhpyinerduibkshk 
dediwvderkshihupjiyuhupxipgdeshihoutongwuchpjiejiduishehuipubipgaizaodezuichudebknkgdeke 
wpgxipgshiyingde 
      dpshizhexieshehuizhuyihegongchpzhuyidezhuzuoyehpyoupippdechkgfkzhexiezhuzuopkg 
jixipcunshehuidequpbujichuyincitamktigongliaoqifagongrkjuewudejiwvbaoguidecailiaota 
mkgupyuwvlaishehuidejijidezhuzhpgliruxiaomiechkgxipgduilixiaomiejiatingxiaomiesirkyingli 
xiaomieguyonglaodongtichpgshehuihexiebaguojiabipchkgchuncuideshkgchpguplijigou----suoyouzhexie 
zhuzhpgduzhishibiaomingyaoxiaomiejiejiduilierzhezhongjiejiduilizaidpgshigpggpgkaishifazhptamksuo 
zhidaodezhishizhezhongduilidezaoqidebumingxipdebuquedingdexingshiyincizhexiezhuzhpgbkshk 
hupdaiyouchuncuikongxipgdexingzhi 
      pippdekongxipgdeshehuizhuyihegongchpzhuyideyiyishitonglishidefazhpchkgfpbide 
jiejidouzhkgyuefazhpheyuejuyouquedingdexingshizhezhongchaohujiejidouzhkgdehupxipgzhezhongfpduijieji 
douzhkgdehupxipgjiuyueshiqurkheshijipyiyiherkhelilungkjusuoyisuirpzhexietixidechupg 
shirkzaixuduofpgmipshigemingdedpshitamkdexintuzongshizuchkgyixiefpdongdezongpaizhexiexintu 
wushiwuchpjiejidelishijinzhphupshisishouzhuolaoshimkdejiugupdipyincitamkyigupqituxiao 
ruojiejidouzhkgdiaoheduilitamkhupzongshimkgxipgyongshiypdebpfalaishixipzijideshehuikongxipg 
chupgbpdpgedefalunsitaierjipliguonvyiminquchupglixiaoyijialiyajixiuzhkbpdexinyelu 
salkg----erwvliaojipzaozheyiqiekongzhonglougetamkjiubudebuhuyuzichpjiejifashpxinhekpg 
kaijikpgtamkzhujipdiduoluodaoshpgshufpdongdehuobaoshoudeshehuizhuyizhedeyihuozhongquliaosuobu 
tongdezhishitamkgkgjiaxitongdimainongxuewkkupgredimixinzijinayitaoshehuikexuedeqigongyi 
xiao 
      yincitamkjiliedifpduigongrkdeyiqiezhkgzhiyundongrkwvzhezhongyundongzhishiyouyumpg 
mudibuxipgxinxinfuyincaifashkgde 
      zaiyingguoyououwkzhuyizhefpduixipzhpgpaizaifaguoyoufuliyezhuyizhefpduigaige 
pai 
 
 
sigongchpdpgrkduigezhongfpduidpgpaidetaidu 
     kpguodierzhpgzhihoujiukeyiliaojiegongchpdpgrktongyijingxingchkgdegongrkzhkgdpgdegupxiyin 
eryejiukeyiliaojietamktongyingguoxipzhpgpaihebvmvtudigaigepaidegupxi 
     gongchpdpgrkwvgongrkjiejidezuijindemudeheliyierdouzhkgdpshitamkzaidpgqipdeyundong 
zhongtongshidaibiaoyundongdewvlaizaifaguogongchpdpgrktongshehuizhuyiminzhudpglipheqilaifpduibaoshou 
dehejijindezichpjiejidpshibingbuyincifpgqiduinaxieconggemingdechuptongzhongchkgxixialaidekongtp 
hehupxipgcaiqupipptaidudequpli 
      zairuishigongchpdpgrkzhichijijinpaidpshibingbuhuluezhegezhkgdpgshiyouhuxipgmaodunde 
fkzizuchkgdeqizhongyibufkshifaguoshideminzhushehuizhuyizheyibufkshijijindezichpzhe 
      zaibolprkzhongjipgongchpdpgrkzhichinagebatudigemingdpgzuominzujiefpgdetiaojipdezhkg 
dpgjifadongguo       1846 nipkelakefuqiyidezhkgdpg 
      zaideguozhiyaozichpjiejicaiqugemingdexingdonggongchpdpgjiutongtayiqiqufpduizhupzhi 
junzhuzhifkgjiptudisuoyouzhihexiaoshimindefpdongxing 
      dpshigongchpdpgyifkzhongyebuhuluejiaoyugongrkjinkkkgmingquediyishidaozichpjiejihe 
wuchpjiejidediduideduiliyibipdeguogongrknkggoulikeliyongzichpjiejitongzhisuobirpdailaide 
shehuidehezhkgzhidetiaojipzuowvfpduizichpjiejidewuqiyibipzaituifpdeguodefpdongjiejizhihou 
lijikaishifpduizichpjiejibkshkdedouzhkg 
      gongchpdpgrkbazijidezhuyaozhuyilijizhongzaideguoyinwvdeguozhkgchuzaizichpjiejige 
mingdeqipyeyinwvtong        17 shijideyingguohe     18 shijidefaguoxipgbideguojipgzaizhkggeouzhouwkming 
gkgjinbudetiaojipxiayongyoufazhpdeduodewuchpjiejiqushixipzhegebipgeyinerdeguodezichpjie 
jigemingzhinkgshiwuchpjiejigemingdezhijiexumu 
      zongzhigongchpdpgrkdaochuduzhichiyiqiefpduixipcundeshehuizhiduhezhkgzhizhidudegeming 
yundong 
      zaisuoyouzhexieyundongzhongtamkdutebieqipgdiaosuoyouzhiwktishiyundongdejibkwktibu 
gupzhegewktidefazhpchkgduzkypg 
      zuihougongchpdpgrkdaochudunulizhkgququpshijiedeminzhuzhkgdpgzhijipdetupjiehexiediao 
     gongchpdpgrkbuxieyuyinmpzijidegupdipheyitutamkgongkaixupbutamkdemudezhiyou 
yongbaolituifpqupbuxipcundeshehuizhiducainkgdadaorpgtongzhijiejizaigongchpzhuyigemingmipqipfadou 
bawuchpzhezaizhegegemingzhongshiqudezhishisuoliptamkhuodedejipgshizhkggeshijie 
 
qupshijiewuchpzhelipheqilai 
