gongchandangxuanyanyigeyoulinggongchanzhuyideyoulingzaiouzhouyoudangweiliaoduizhegeyoulingjinxingshenshengdeweijiaojiuouzhoudeyiqieshilijiaohuangheshahuangmeiteniehejizuofaguodejijinpaihedeguodejing
chadulianheqilailiao younayigefanduidangbubeitadedangzhengdedirenmaweigongchandangneyouyounayigefanduidangbu 
nagongchanzhuyizhegezuimingquhuijinggengjinbudefanduidangrenhezijidefandongdirenne congzheyishishizhongkeyidechulianggejielun gongchanzhuyiyijingbeiouzhoudeyiqieshiligongrenweiyizhongshili xianzaishigongchandangrenxiangquanshijiegongkaishuomingzijideguandianzijidemudezijideyitu 
bingqienadangzijidexuanyanlaifanboguanyugongchanzhuyiyoulingdeshenhuadeshihouliao 
     weiliaozhegemudegeguogongchandangrenjihuiyulundunnidingliaoruxiadexuanyanyongyingwen 
fawendewenyidaliwenfulamangwenhedanmaiwengongbuyushi 

yizichanzhehewuchanzhe 

     zhijinyiqieshehuidelishidushijiejidouzhengdelishi 
     ziyouminhenuliguizuhepingminlingzhuhenongnuxinghuishifuhebanggongyijuhuaya 
pozhehebeiyapozheshizhongchuyuxianghuduilidediweijinxingbuduandeyoushiyinbiyoushigongkaide 
douzhengermeiyicidouzhengdejiejushizhenggeshehuishoudaogeminggaizaohuozhedouzhengdegejiejitongguiyu 
jin 
  zaiguoqudegegelishishidaiwomenjihudaochudukeyikandaoshehuiwanquanhuafenweigegebutongde 
dengjikandaoshehuidiweifenchengdeduozhongduoyangdecengcizaiguluomayouguizuqishipingmin 
nulizaizhongshijiyoufengjianzhuchenpuxinghuishifubanggongnongnuerqiejihuzaimeiyige 
jiejineibuyouyouyixieteshudejieceng 
  congfengjianshehuidemiewangzhongchanshengchulaidexiandaizichanjiejishehuibingmeiyouxiaomiejiejiduilitazhi 
shiyongxindejiejixindeyapotiaojianxindedouzhengxingshidaitiliaojiude 
     danshiwomendeshidaizichanjiejishidaiqueyouyigetediantashijiejiduilijiandanhua 
liaozhenggeshehuiriyifenlieweiliangdadiduidezhenyingfenlieweiliangdaxianghuzhijieduilidejiejizi 
chanjiejihewuchanjieji 
     congzhongshijidenongnuzhongchanshengliaochuqichengshidechengguanshimincongzhegeshimindengjizhongfazhanchu 
zuichudezichanjiejifenzi 
     meizhoudefaxianraoguofeizhoudehangxinggeixinxingdezichanjiejikaibiliaoxintiandidongyindu 
hezhongguodeshichangmeizhoudezhiminhuaduizhimindidemaoyijiaohuanshouduanheyibandeshangpindezengjia 
shishangyehanghaiyehegongyekongqiangaozhangyinershizhengzaibengkuidefengjianshehuineibudegemingyinsuxun 
sufazhan 
     yiqiannazhongfengjiandehuoxinghuidegongyejingyingfangshiyijingbunengmanzusuizhuoxinshichangdechuxianer 
zengjiadexuqiuliaogongchangshougongyedaitiliaozhezhongjingyingfangshixinghuishifubeigongyedezhongjiandengjipai 
jidiaoliaogezhongxingyezuzhizhijiandefengongsuizhuogegezuofangneibudefengongdechuxianerxiaoshiliao 
      
      
      
     danshishichangzongshizaikuodaxuqiuzongshizaizengjiashenzhigongchangshougongyeyebuzainengmanzu 
xuyaoliaoyushizhengqihejiqiyinqiliaogongyeshengchandegemingxiandaidagongyehuatiliaogongchangshougong 
yegongyezhongdebaiwanfuwengyizhiyizhichanyedajundeshoulingxiandaizichanzhedaitiliaogongyede 
zhongjiandengji 
     dagongyejianliliaoyoumeizhoudefaxiansuozhunbeihaodeshijieshichangshijieshichangshishangyehanghai 
yehelulujiaotongdedaoliaojudadefazhanzhezhongfazhanyoufanguolaicujinliaogongyedekuozhantongshi 
suizhuogongyeshangyehanghaiyehetieludekuozhanzichanjiejiyezaitongyichengdushangdedaofazhanzeng 
jiazijidezibenbazhongshijiyiliuxialaideyiqiejiejidupaijidaohoumianqu 
     youcikejianxiandaizichanjiejibenshenshiyigechangqifazhanguochengdechanwushishengchanfangshihe 
jiaohuanfangshideyixiliebiangedechanwu 
     zichanjiejidezhezhongfazhandemeiyigejieduandubansuizhuoxiangyingdezhengzhishangjinzhantazaifeng 
jianzhutongzhixiashibeiyapodedengjizaigongshelishiwuzhuangdehezizhidetuantizaiyixiedifangzucheng 
dulidechengshigongheguozailingyixiedifangzuchengjunzhuguozhongdenashuidedisandengjihoulaizaigong 
changshougongyeshiqitashidengjizhijunzhuguohuozhuanzhijunzhuguozhongtongguizukanghengdeshilierqieshida 
junzhuguodezhuyaojichuzuihoucongdagongyeheshijieshichangjianlideshihouqitazaixiandaidedaiyi 
zhiguojialiduodeliaoduzhandezhengzhitongzhixiandaideguojiazhengquanbuguoshiguanlizhenggezichanjiejidegong 
tongshiwudeweiyuanhuibaliao 
     zichanjiejizailishishangzengjingqiguofeichanggemingdezuoyong 
  zichanjiejizaitayijingqudeliaotongzhidedifangbayiqiefengjiandezongfadehetianyuanshibandeguanxi 
dupohuailiaotawuqingdizhanduanliaobarenmenshufuyutianranzunchangdexingxingsesedefengjianjibantashi 
renherenzhijianchuliaochiluoluodelihaiguanxichuliaolengkuwuqingdexianjinjiaoyijiuzaiyemeiyouren 
hebiedelianxiliaotabazongjiaoqianchengqishirechenxiaoshiminshangganzhexieqinggandeshenshengfazuoyan 
meizailijizhuyidasuandebingshuizhizhongtabarendezunyanbianchengliaojiaohuanjiazhiyongyizhongmeiyouliangxin 
demaoyiziyoudaitiliaowushutexudehezilizhengdedeziyouzongeryanzhitayonggongkaidewuchi 
dezhijiedelugudebaoxiaodaitiliaoyouzongjiaohuanxianghezhengzhihuanxiangyangaizhuodebaoxiao 
  zichanjiejimoquliaoyiqiexianglaishourenzunchonghelingrenjingweidezhiyedeshenshengguanghuantabayisheng 
lvshijiaoshishirenhexuezhebianchengliaotachuqianzhaogudeguyonglaodongzhe 
     zichanjiejisixialiaozhaozaijiatingguanxishangdewenqingmaimaidemianshabazhezhongguanxibianchengliaochun 
cuidejinqianguanxi 
     zichanjiejijieshiliaozaizhongshijishenshoufandongpaichengxudenazhongrenlideyemanshiyongshiyi 
jiduandaiduozuoweixiangyingbuchongdetadiyigezhengmingliaorendehuodongnenggouqudeshimeyangdechengjiu 
tachuangzaoliaowanquanbutongyuaijijinzitaluomashuidaohegeteshijiaotangdeqijitawanchengliaowanquan 
butongyuminzudaqianxiheshizijundongzhengdeyuanzheng 
  zichanjiejichufeiduishengchangongjucongerduishengchanguanxicongerduiquanbushehuiguanxibuduandijinxing 
gemingfouzejiubunengshengcunxiaqufanzhiyuanfengbudongdibaochijiudeshengchanfangshiqueshiguoqude 
yiqiegongyejiejishengcundeshouyaotiaojianshengchandebuduanbiangeyiqieshehuizhuangkuangbutingdedongdangyong 
yuandebuandinghebiandongzhejiushizichanjiejishidaibutongyuguoquyiqieshidaidedifangyiqieguding 
dejianghuadeguanxiyijiyuzhixiangshiyingdesubeizunchongdeguannianhejianjiedubeixiaochuliaoyiqiexinxingcheng 
deguanxidengbudaogudingxialaijiuchenjiuliaoyiqiedengjidehegudingdedongxiduyanxiaoyunsanliaoyiqie 
shenshengdedongxidubeixieduliaorenmenzhongyubudebuyonglengjingdeyanguanglaikantamendeshenghuodiweita 
mendexianghuguanxi 
  buduankuodachanpinxiaoludexuyaoqushizichanjiejibenzouyuquanqiugeditabixudaochuluohu 
daochukaifadaochujianlilianxi 
  zichanjiejiyouyukaituoliaoshijieshichangshiyiqieguojiadeshengchanhexiaofeiduchengweishijiexingde 
liaoshifandongpaidaweiwanxideshizichanjiejiwadiaoliaogongyejiaoxiademinzujichugulaodeminzu 
gongyebeixiaomieliaobingqiemeitianduhuanzaibeixiaomietamenbeixindegongyepaijidiaoliaoxindegongyede 
jianliyijingchengweiyiqiewenmingminzudeshengmingyouguandewentizhexiegongyesuojiagongdeyijingbushiben 
dideyuanliaoershilaizijiqiyaoyuandediqudeyuanliaotamendechanpinbujingongbenguoxiaofeierqie 
tongshigongshijiegedixiaofeijiudekaoguochanpinlaimanzudexuyaobeixindeyaokaojiqiyaoyuande 
guojiahedidaidechanpinlaimanzudexuyaosuodaitiliaoguoqunazhongdifangdeheminzudezigeizizuhe 
biguanzishouzhuangtaibeigeminzudegefangmiandehuxiangwanglaihegefangmiandehuxiangyilaisuodaitiliaowu 
zhideshengchanshirucijingshendeshengchanyeshirucigeminzudejingshenchanpinchengliaogonggongdecaichanmin 
zudepianmianxinghejuxianxingriyichengweibukenengyushiyouxuduozhongminzudehedifangdewenxuexingchengliao 
yizhongshijiedewenxue 
  zichanjiejiyouyuyiqieshengchangongjudexunsugaijinyouyujiaotongdejiqibianlibayiqieminzu 
shenzhizuiyemandeminzudujuandaowenmingzhonglailiaotadeshangpindedilianjiageshitayonglaicuihuiyiqie 
wanlichangchengzhengfuyemanrenzuiwanqiangdechouwaixinlidezhongpaotaposhiyiqieminzu----ruguotamen 
buxiangmiewangdehua----caiyongzichanjiejideshengchanfangshitaposhitamenzaizijinalituixingsuoweiwen 
mingjibianchengzichanzheyijuhuataanzhaozijidemianmaoweizijichuangzaochuyigeshijie 
     zichanjiejishinongcunqufuyuchengshidetongzhitachuangliliaojudadechengshishichengshirenkoubi 
nongcunrenkoudadazengjiaqilaiyinershihendayibufenjumintuoliliaonongcunshenghuodeyumeizhuangtaizheng 
xiangtashinongcuncongshuyuchengshiyiyangtashiweikaihuahebankaihuadeguojiacongshuyuwenmingdeguojiashi 
nongmindeminzucongshuyuzichanjiejideminzushidongfangcongshuyuxifang 
  zichanjiejirishenyiridixiaomieshengchanshujucaichanherenkoudefensanzhuangtaitashirenkoumijiqi 
laishishengchanshujujizhongqilaishicaichanjujizaishaoshurendeshouliyoucibiranchanshengdejieguojiu 
shizhengzhidejizhonggezidulidejihuzhiyoutongmengguanxidegeyoubutongliyibutongfalv 
butongzhengfubutongguanshuidegegediquxianzaiyijingjieheweiyigeyongyoutongyidezhengfutongyide 
falvtongyideminzujiejiliyihetongyideguanshuidetongyideminzu 
     zichanjiejizaitadebudaoyibainiandejiejitongzhizhongsuochuangzaodeshengchanlibiguoquyiqieshi 
daichuangzaodequanbushengchanlihuanyaoduohuanyaodaziranlidezhengfujiqidecaiyonghuaxuezaigongye 
henongyezhongdeyingyonglunchuandexingshitieludetongxingdianbaodeshiyongzhenggezhenggedaludekaiken 
hechuandetonghangfangfoyongfashucongdixiahuhuanchulaidedaliangrenkou----guoqunayigeshijiliaoxiang 
daozaishehuilaodongliyuncangyouzheyangdeshengchanline 
     youcikejianzichanjiejilaiyixingchengdeshengchanshujuhejiaohuanshouduanshizaifengjianshehuilizao 
chengdezaizhexieshengchanshujuhejiaohuanshouduanfazhandeyidingjieduanshangfengjianshehuideshengchanhejiaohuanzai 
qizhongjinxingdeguanxifengjiandenongyehegongchangshougongyezuzhiyijuhuafengjiandesuoyouzhiguanxi 
jiubuzaishiyingyijingfazhandeshengchanliliaozhezhongguanxiyijingzaizuaishengchanerbushicujinshengchanliao 
tabianchengliaoshufushengchandezhigutabixubeizhahuierqieyijingbeizhahuiliao 
     qierdaizhideshiziyoujingzhengyijiyuziyoujingzhengxiangshiyingdeshehuizhiduhezhengzhizhiduzi 
chanjiejidejingjitongzhihezhengzhitongzhi 
     xianzaiwomenyanqianyoujinxingzhuoleisideyundongzichanjiejideshengchanguanxihejiaohuanguanxi 
zichanjiejidesuoyouzhiguanxizhegezengjingfangfoyongfashuchuangzaoliaorucipangdadeshengchanshujuhejiaohuan 
shouduandexiandaizichanjiejishehuixianzaixiangyigemofashiyiyangbunengzaizhipeizijiyongfashuhuhuanchu 
laidemoguiliaojishinianlaidegongyeheshangyedelishizhibuguoshixiandaishengchanlifankangxiandaishengchan 
guanxifankangzuoweizichanjiejijiqitongzhidecunzaitiaojiandesuoyouzhiguanxidelishizhiyaozhichuzai 
zhouqixingdezhongfuzhongyuelaiyueweijizhenggezichanjiejishehuishengcundeshangyeweijijiugouliaozaishangyewei 
jiqijianzongshibujinyouhendayibufenzhichengdechanpinbeihuimiediaoerqieyouhendayibufenyijingzao 
chengdeshengchanlibeihuimiediaozaiweijiqijianfashengyizhongzaiguoquyiqieshidaikanlaiduhaoxiangshihuangtang 
xianxiangdeshehuiwenyijishengchanguoshengdewenyishehuituranfaxianzijihuidaoliaoyishideyemanzhuang 
taifangfoshiyicijihuangyichangpubiandehuimiexingzhanzhengshishehuishiquliaoquanbushenghuoziliaofang 
foshigongyeheshangyequanbeihuimieliao----zheshishimeyuanguneyinweishehuishangwenmingguodushenghuo 
shujutaiduogongyeheshangyetaifadashehuisuoyongyoudeshengchanliyijingbunengzaicujinzichanjiejiwen 
minghezichanjiejisuoyouzhiguanxidefazhanxiangfanshengchanliyijingqiangdadaozhezhongguanxisuobunengshiying 
dedibutayijingshoudaozhezhongguanxidezuaiertayizhuoshoukefuzhezhongzhangaijiushizhenggezichan 
jiejishehuixianruhunluanjiushizichanjiejisuoyouzhidecunzaishoudaoweixiezichanjiejideguanxiyijing 
taixiazhailiaozairongnabuliaotabenshensuozaochengdecaifuliao----zichanjiejiyongshimebanfalaikefu 
zhezhongweijineyifangmianbudebuxiaomiedaliangshengchanlilingyifangmianduoquxindeshichanggengjiachedi 
diliyongjiudeshichangzhejiujingshizenyangdeyizhongbanfanezhebuguoshizichanjiejizhunbeigengquanmiangeng 
mengliedeweijidebanfabuguoshishifangzhiweijideshouduanyuelaiyueshaodebanfa 
     zichanjiejiyonglaituifanfengjianzhidudewuqixianzaiqueduizhunzichanjiejizijiliao 
     danshizichanjiejibujinduanzaoliaozhizishenyusididewuqitahuanchanshengliaojiangyaoyunyongzhe 
zhongwuqideren----xiandaidegongrenjiwuchanzhe 
     suizhuozichanjiejijizibendefazhanwuchanjiejijixiandaigongrenjiejiyezaitongyichengdushangde 
daofazhanxiandaidegongrenzhiyoudangtamenzhaodaogongzuodeshihoucainengshengcunerqiezhiyoudangtamendelao 
dongzengzhizibendeshihoucainengzhaodaogongzuozhexiebudebubazijilingxingchumaidegongrenxiangqitaren 
hehuowuyiyangyeshiyizhongshangpinsuoyitamentongyangdishoudaojingzhengdeyiqiebianhuashichangdeyiqie 
bodongdeyingxiang 
     youyujiqidetuiguanghefengongwuchanzhedelaodongyijingshiquliaorenhedulidexingzhiyiner 
duigongrenyeshiquliaorenhexiyinligongrenbianchengliaojiqidedanchundefushupinyaoqiutazuodezhishi 
jiqijiandanjiqidandiaohejirongyixuehuidecaozuoyincihuazaigongrenshenshangdefeiyongjihuzhi 
xianyuweichigongrenshenghuoheyanxugongrenhoudaisuobixudeshenghuoziliaodanshishangpindejiageconger 
laodongdejiageshitongtadeshengchanfeiyongxiangdengdeyincilaodongyueshirengandaoyanegongziyejiu 
yuejianshaobujinrucijiqiyuetuiguangfengongyuexizhilaodongliangyejiuyuezengjiazhehuozheshiyou 
yugongzuoshijiandeyanchanghuozheshiyouyuzaiyidingshijianneisuoyaoqiudelaodongdezengjiajiqiyunzhuande 
 
 
 
jiasudengdeng 
     xiandaigongyeyijingbajiachangshideshifudexiaozuofangbianchengliaogongyezibenjiadedagongchangjizai 
gongchanglidegongrenqunzhongjiuxiangshibingyiyangbeizuzhiqilaitamenshichanyejundeputongshibingshouzhuoge 
jijunshihejunguandecengcengjianshitamenbujinshizichanjiejidezichanjiejiguojiadenulibingqie 
meirimeishidushoujiqishoujiangongshouxianshishougegejingyinggongchangdezichanzhebenrendenuyizhezhong 
zhuanzhizhiduyueshigongkaidibayinglixuanbuweizijidezuizhongmudetajiuyueshikebikehenhekee 
     shoudecaozuosuoyaoqiudejiqiaoheqiliyueshaohuanjuhuashuoxiandaigongyeyuefadanangongye 
jiuyueshoudaonvgonghetonggongdepaijiduigongrenjiejilaishuoxingbiehenianlingdechabiezaimeiyoushimeshe 
huiyiyiliaotamenduzhishilaodonggongjubuguoyinweinianlinghexingbiedebutongerxuyaobutongdefeiyong 
baliao 
     dangchangzhuduigongrendebaoxiaogaoyiduanluogongrenlingdaoliaoyongxianqianzhifudegongzideshihouma 
shangjiuyouzichanjiejizhongdelingyibufenren----fangdongxiaodianzhudangpulaobandengdengxiangtamenpulai 
     yiqiandezhongjiandengjidexiacengjixiaogongyejiaxiaoshangrenhexiaoshilizheshougongyezhehenong 
min----suoyouzhexiejiejidujiangluodaowuchanjiejideduiwulilailiaoyoudeshiyinweitamendexiaoziben 
buzuyijingyingdagongyejingbuqijiaodazibenjiadejingzhengyoudeshiyinweitamendeshouyiyijingbeixin 
deshengchanfangfanongdebuzhiqianliaowuchanjiejideduiwujiushizheyangcongjumindesuoyoujiejizhongdedaobu 
chongde 
     wuchanjiejijingliliaogegebutongdefazhanjieduantafanduizichanjiejidedouzhengshihetadecun 
zaitongshikaishide 
     zuichushidangedegongrenranhoushimouyigongchangdegongrenranhoushimouyidifangdemouyilaodong 
bumendegongrentongzhijiebaoxiaotamendedangezichanzhezuodouzhengtamenbujinjingongjizichanjiejide 
shengchanguanxierqiegongjishengchangongjubenshentamenhuihuainaxielaijingzhengdewaiguoshangpindaohuijiqi 
shaohuigongchanglituhuifuyijingshiqudezhongshijigongrendediwei 
     zaizhegejieduanshanggongrenmenhuanshifensanzaiquanguogedibingweijingzhengsuofenliedequnzhonggongren 
dedaguimojijiehuanbushitamenzijilianhedejieguoershizichanjiejilianhedejieguodangshizi 
chanjiejiweiliaodadaozijidezhengzhimudebixuerqiezanshihuannenggoubazhenggewuchanjiejifadongqi 
laiyincizaizhegejieduanshangwuchanzhebushitongzijidedirenzuodouzhengershitongzijidediren 
dedirenzuodouzhengjitongzhuanzhijunzhuzhidecanyudizhufeigongyezichanjiejihexiaozichanzhezuodou 
zhengyincizhenggelishiyundongdujizhongzaizichanjiejishoulizaizhezhongtiaojianxiaqudedemeiyigesheng 
lidushizichanjiejideshengli 
     danshisuizhuogongyedefazhanwuchanjiejibujinrenshuzengjialiaoerqietajiehechenggengdade 
jititadeliliangriyizengchangtayuelaiyueganjuedaozijideliliangjiqishilaodongdechabieyuelai 
yuexiaoshigongzijihudaochudujiangdaotongyangdideshuipingyinerwuchanjiejineibudeliyiheshenghuozhuang 
kuangyeyuelaiyuequyuyizhizichanzhebicijianriyijiajudejingzhengyijiyouciyinqideshangyeweiji 
shigongrendegongziyuelaiyuebuwendingjiqideriyixunsudehejixubuduandegailiangshigongrendezheng 
geshenghuodiweiyuelaiyuemeiyoubaozhangdangegongrenhedangezichanzhezhijiandechongtuyuelaiyuejuyouliangge 
jiejidechongtudexingzhigongrenkaishichenglifanduizichanzhedetongmengtamenlianheqilaibaoweizijide 
gongzitamenshenzhijianliliaojingchangxingdetuantiyibianweikenengfashengdefankangzhunbeishipinyouxiedi 
 
 
 
fangdouzhengbaofaweiqiyi 
     gongrenyoushiyededaoshenglidanzhezhongshenglizhishizanshidetamendouzhengdezhenzhengchengguobingbu 
shizhijiequdedechenggongershigongrendeyuelaiyuekuodadelianhezhezhonglianheyouyudagongyesuozaocheng 
deriyifadadejiaotonggongjuerdedaofazhanzhezhongjiaotonggongjubagedidegongrenbicilianxiqilai 
zhiyaoyouliaozhezhonglianxijiunengbaxuduoxingzhixiangtongdedifangxingdedouzhenghuihechengquanguoxingdedouzheng 
huihechengjiejidouzhengeryiqiejiejidouzhengdushizhengzhidouzhengzhongshijideshiminkaoxiangjianxiaodaoxuyao 
jibainiancainengdadaodelianhexiandaidewuchanzheliyongtieluzhiyaojinianjiukeyidadaoliao 
     wuchanzhezuzhichengweijiejicongerzuzhichengweizhengdangzhejianshibuduandiyouyugongrendezixiang 
jingzhengershoudaopohuaidanshizhezhongzuzhizongshizhongxinchanshengbingqieyicibiyicigengqiangdagengjian 
gugengyoulitaliyongzichanjiejineibudefenlieposhitamenyongfalvxingshichengrengongrendegebie 
liyiyingguodeshixiaoshigongzuorifaanjiushiyigelizi 
     jiushehuineibudesuoyouchongtuzaixuduofangmianducujinliaowuchanjiejidefazhanzichanjiejichu 
yubuduandedouzhengzhongzuichufanduiguizuhoulaifanduitonggongyejinbuyoulihaichongtudenabufenzichan 
jiejijingchangfanduiyiqiewaiguodezichanjiejizaizheyiqiedouzhengzhongzichanjiejidubudebuxiangwu 
chanjiejihuyuyaoqiuwuchanjiejiyuanzhuzheyangjiubawuchanjiejijuanjinliaozhengzhiyundongyushizi 
chanjiejizijijiubazijidejiaoyuyinsujifanduizishendewuqigeiyuliaowuchanjieji 
     qiciwomenyijingkandaogongyedejinbubatongzhijiejidezhengpichengyuanpaodaowuchanjiejidui 
wuliquhuozhezhishaoyeshitamendeshenghuotiaojianshoudaoweixietamenyegeiwuchanjiejidailailiaodaliang 
dejiaoyuyinsu 
     zuihouzaijiejidouzhengjiejinjuezhandeshiqitongzhijiejineibudezhenggejiushehuineibude 
wajieguochengjiudadaofeichangqiangliefeichangjianruidechengdushenzhishidetongzhijiejizhongdeyixiaobufen 
rentuolitongzhijiejierguifuyugemingdejiejijizhangwozhuoweilaidejiejisuoyizhengxiangguoqugui 
zuzhongyouyibufenrenzhuandaozichanjiejifangmianyiyangxianzaizichanjiejizhongyeyouyibufenrentebieshi 
yijingtigaodaoconglilunshangrenshizhenggelishiyundongzheyishuipingdeyibufenzichanjiejisixiangjiazhuandao 
wuchanjiejifangmianlailiao 
     zaidangqiantongzichanjiejiduilideyiqiejiejizhongzhiyouwuchanjiejishizhenzhenggemingdejieji 
qiyudejiejidusuizhuodagongyedefazhanerriqumeiluohemiewangwuchanjiejiqueshidagongyebenshende 
chanwu 
     zhongjiandengjijixiaogongyejiaxiaoshangrenshougongyezhenongmintamentongzichanjiejizuodou 
zhengdushiweiliaoweihutamenzhezhongzhongjiandengjideshengcunyimianyumiewangsuoyitamenbushigeming 
deershibaoshoudebujinrucitamenshenzhishifandongdeyinweitamenlitushilishidechelundao 
zhuanruguoshuotamenshigemingdenashijianyutamenxingjiangzhuanruwuchanjiejideduiwuzheyangtamen 
jiubushiweihutamenmuqiandeliyiershiweihutamenjianglaideliyitamenjiulikaizijiyuanlaide 
lichangerzhandaowuchanjiejidelichangshanglai 
     liumangwuchanjiejishijiushehuizuixiacengzhongxiaojidefuhuadebufentamenzaiyixiedifangyebei 
wuchanjiejigemingjuandaoyundonglilaidanshiyouyutamendezhenggeshenghuozhuangkuangtamengengganxinyubei 
renshoumaiquganfandongdegoudang 
     zaiwuchanjiejideshenghuotiaojianzhongjiushehuideshenghuotiaojianyijingbeixiaomieliaowuchanzheshimei 
 
 
 
youcaichandetamenheqiziernvdeguanxitongzichanjiejidejiatingguanxizaimeiyourenhegongtongzhichu 
liaoxiandaidegongyelaodongxiandaidezibenyapowulunzaiyingguohuofaguowulunzaimeiguohuodeguo 
dushiyiyangdedushiwuchanzheshiquliaorenheminzuxingfalvdaodezongjiaozaitamenkanlaiquan 
dushizichanjiejipianjianyincangzaizhexiepianjianhoumiandequandushizichanjiejiliyi 
     guoquyiqiejiejizaizhengdetongzhizhihouzongshishizhenggeshehuifucongyutamenfacaizhifudetiao 
jianqituyicilaigonggutamenyijinghuodedeshenghuodiweiwuchanzhezhiyoufeichuzijidexiancundezhan 
youfangshicongerfeichuquanbuxiancundezhanyoufangshicainengqudeshehuishengchanliwuchanzhemeiyoushime 
zijidedongxibixujiayibaohutamenbixucuihuizhijinbaohuhebaozhangsiyoucaichandeyiqie 
     guoqudeyiqieyundongdushishaoshurendehuozheweishaoshurenmouliyideyundongwuchanjiejideyun 
dongshijuedaduoshurendeweijuedaduoshurenmouliyidedulideyundongwuchanjiejixianjinshehuide 
zuixiacengruguobuzhahuigouchengguanfangshehuidezhenggeshangcengjiubunengtaiqitoulaitingqixionglai 
     ruguobujiuneirongerjiuxingshilaishuowuchanjiejifanduizichanjiejidedouzhengshouxianshiyiguofan 
weineidedouzhengmeiyigeguojiadewuchanjiejidangranshouxianyinggaidadaobenguodezichanjieji 
     zaixushuwuchanjiejifazhandezuiyibandejieduandeshihouwomenxunxutantaoliaoxiancunshehuinei 
buhuoduohuoshaoyinbizhuodeguoneizhanzhengzhidaozhegezhanzhengbaofaweigongkaidegemingwuchanjiejiyongbao 
lituifanzichanjiejierjianlizijidetongzhi 
     womenyijingkandaozhijindeyiqieshehuidushijianlizaiyapojiejihebeiyapojiejideduili 
zhishangdedanshiweiliaoyoukenengyapoyigejiejijiubixubaozhengzhegejiejizhishaoyounenggoumianqiang 
weichitadenulibandeshengcundetiaojiannongnuzengjingzainongnuzhiduxiazhengzhadaogongshesheyuandediwei 
xiaozichanzhezengjingzaifengjianzhuanzhizhidudeshufuxiazhengzhadaozichanzhedediweixiandaidegongrenquexiang 
fantamenbingbushisuizhuogongyedejinbuershangshengershiyuelaiyuejiangdaobenjiejideshengcuntiaojianyi 
xiagongrenbianchengchipinzhepinkunbirenkouhecaifuzengchangdehuanyaokuaiyoucikeyimingxiandikanchu 
zichanjiejizaibunengzuoshehuidetongzhijiejiliaozaibunengbazijijiejideshengcuntiaojiandangzuozhipeiyi 
qiedeguilvqiangjiayushehuiliaozichanjiejibunengtongzhixiaquliaoyinweitashenzhibunengbaozhengzijide 
nuliweichinulideshenghuoyinweitabudeburangzijidenuliluodaobunengyanghuotafaneryaotalaiyang 
huodedibushehuizaibunengzaitatongzhixiashenghuoxiaquliaojiushishuotadecunzaibuzaitongshehuixiang 
rongliao 
     zichanjiejishengcunhetongzhidegenbentiaojianshicaifuzaisirenshoulidejileishizibendexing 
chenghezengzhizibendetiaojianshiguyonglaodongguyonglaodongwanquanshijianlizaigongrendezixiangjingzhengzhishang 
dezichanjiejiwuyizhongzaochengeryouwulidikangdegongyejinbushigongrentongguojiesheerdadaodege 
minglianhedaitiliaotamenyouyujingzhengerzaochengdefensanzhuangtaiyushisuizhuodagongyedefazhanzichan 
jiejilaiyishengchanhezhanyouchanpindejichubenshenyejiucongtadejiaoxiabeiwadiaoliaotashouxianshengchandeshi 
tazishendejuemurenzichanjiejidemiewanghewuchanjiejideshenglishitongyangbukebimiande 
 
 
erwuchanzhehegongchandangren 
      
      
     gongchandangrentongquantiwuchanzhedeguanxishizenyangdene 
     gongchandangrenbushitongqitagongrenzhengdangxiangduilideteshuzhengdang 
      
      
      
     tamenmeiyourenhetongzhenggewuchanjiejideliyibutongdeliyi 
     tamenbutichurenheteshudeyuanzeyongyisuzaowuchanjiejideyundong 
     gongchandangrentongqitawuchanjiejizhengdangbutongdedifangzhishiyifangmianzaigeguowuchanzhede 
douzhengzhonggongchandangrenqiangdiaohejianchizhenggewuchanjiejigongtongdebufenminzudeliyilingyifangmian 
zaiwuchanjiejihezichanjiejidedouzhengsuojinglidegegefazhanjieduanshanggongchandangrenshizhongdaibiaozhengge 
yundongdeliyi 
     yincizaishijianfangmiangongchandangrenshigeguogongrenzhengdangzhongzuijianjuedeshizhongqituidongzuo 
yongdebufenzaililunfangmiantamenshengguoqiyudewuchanjiejiqunzhongdedifangzaiyutamenliaojiewuchan 
jiejiyundongdetiaojianjinchengheyibanjieguo 
     gongchandangrendezuijinmudeshiheqitayiqiewuchanjiejizhengdangdezuijinmudeyiyangdeshiwu 
chanjiejixingchengweijiejituifanzichanjiejidetongzhiyouwuchanjiejiduoquzhengquan 
     gongchandangrendelilunyuanlijuebushiyizhegehuonageshijiegaigejiasuofaminghuofaxiandesi 
xiangyuanzeweigenjude 
     zhexieyuanlibuguoshixianzaidejiejidouzhengwomenyanqiandelishiyundongdezhenshiguanxideyiban 
biaoshufeichuxianqiancunzaidesuoyouzhiguanxibingbushigongchanzhuyisuodujudetezheng 
     yiqiesuoyouzhiguanxidujingliliaojingchangdelishigengtijingchangdelishibiangeng 
     lirufaguogemingfeichuliaofengjiandesuoyouzhidaizhiyizichanjiejidesuoyouzhi 
     gongchanzhuyidetezhengbingbushiyaofeichuyibandesuoyouzhiershiyaofeichuzichanjiejidesuoyou 
zhi 
     danshixiandaidezichanjiejisiyouzhishijianlizaijiejiduilishangmianjianlizaiyixierenduiling 
yixierendebaoxiaoshangmiandechanpinshengchanhezhanyoudezuihoueryouzuiwanbeidebiaoxian 
     congzhegeyiyishangshuogongchandangrenkeyibazijidelilungaikuoweiyijuhuaxiaomiesiyouzhi 
     yourenzebeiwomengongchandangrenshuowomenyaoxiaomiegerenzhengdedezijilaodongdelaidecaichan 
yaoxiaomiegouchenggerendeyiqieziyouhuodonghedulidejichudecaichan 
     haoyigelaodongdelaidezijizhengdedezijizhuanlaidecaichannimenshuodeshizichanjieji 
suoyouzhiyiqiandenazhongxiaozichanjiejidexiaonongdecaichanmanazhongcaichanyongbuzhuowomenquxiaomie 
gongyedefazhanyijingbataxiaomieliaoerqiemeitianduzaixiaomieta 
     huozhenimenshuodeshixiandaidezichanjiejidesiyoucaichanba 
     danshinandaoguyonglaodongwuchanzhedelaodonghuigeiwuchanzhechuangzaochucaichanlaimameiyou 
deshizhezhonglaodongsuochuangzaodeshizibenjibaoxiaoguyonglaodongdecaichanzhiyouzaibuduanchanshengchuxin 
deguyonglaodonglaizhongxinjiayibaoxiaodetiaojianxiacainengzengjiaqilaidecaichanxianjindezhezhongcaichanshizai 
zibenheguyonglaodongdeduilizhongyundongderangwomenlaikankanzhezhongduilidelianggefangmianba 
     zuoyigezibenjiazhejiushishuotazaishengchanzhongbujinzhanyouyizhongchuncuigerendediweier 
qiezhanyouyizhongshehuidediweizibenshijitidechanwutazhiyoutongguoshehuixuduochengyuandegongtonghuo 
dongerqieguigendaodizhiyoutongguoshehuiquantichengyuandegongtonghuodongcainengyundongqilai 
     yincizibenbushiyizhonggerenliliangershiyizhongshehuililiang 
     yincibazibenbianweigonggongdeshuyushehuiquantichengyuandecaichanzhebingbushibagerencai 
chanbianweishehuicaichanzheshisuogaibiandezhishicaichandeshehuixingzhitajiangshidiaotadejiejixingzhi 
      
      
      
     xianzaiwomenlaikankanguyonglaodong 
     guyonglaodongdepingjunjiageshizuidixiandudegongzijigongrenweiweichiqigongrendeshenghuosuobi 
xudeshenghuoziliaodeshueyinciguyonggongrenkaozijidelaodongsuozhanyoudedongxizhigoumianqiangwei 
chitadeshengmingdezaishengchanwomenjuebudasuanxiaomiezhezhonggongzhijieshengmingzaishengchanyongdelaodongchanpinde 
gerenzhanyouzhezhongzhanyoubingbuhuiliuxiarenheshengyudedongxishirenmenyoukenengzhipeibierendelaodong 
womenyaoxiaomiedezhishizhezhongzhanyoudekeliandexingzhizaizhezhongzhanyouxiagongrenjinjinweizengzhiziben 
erhuozhuozhiyouzaitongzhijiejideliyixuyaotahuozhuodeshihoucainenghuozhuo 
  zaizichanjiejishehuilihuodelaodongzhishizengzhiyijingjileiqilaidelaodongdeyizhongshouduanzaigong 
chanzhuyishehuiliyijingjileiqilaidelaodongzhishikuodafengfuhetigaogongrendeshenghuodeyizhongshou 
duan 
     yincizaizichanjiejishehuilishiguoquzhipeixianzaizaigongchanzhuyishehuilishixianzaizhipei 
guoquzaizichanjiejishehuilizibenjuyoudulixinghegexingerhuodongzhuodegerenquemeiyouduli 
xinghegexing 
     erzichanjiejiquebaxiaomiezhezhongguanxishuochengshixiaomiegexingheziyoushuoduiliaodequezheng 
shiyaoxiaomiezichanzhedegexingdulixingheziyou 
     zaixianjindezichanjiejishengchanguanxidefanweineisuoweiziyoujiushiziyoumaoyiziyoumaimai 
     danshimaimaiyixiaoshiziyoumaimaiyejiuhuixiaoshiguanyuziyoumaimaideyanlunyexiangwo 
mendezichanjiejideqitayiqieguanyuziyoudedahuayiyangjinjinduiyubuziyoudemaimailaishuodui 
yuzhongshijibeinuyideshiminlaishuocaishiyouyiyideerduiyugongchanzhuyiyaoxiaomiemaimaixiaomie 
zichanjiejishengchanguanxihezichanjiejibenshenzheyidianlaishuoqueshihaowuyiyide 
     womenyaoxiaomiesiyouzhinimenjiujinghuangqilaidanshizainimendexiancunshehuilisiyou 
caichanduishifenzhijiudechengyuanlaishuoyijingbeixiaomieliaozhezhongsiyouzhizhisuoyicunzaizhengshiyinweisi 
youcaichanduishifenzhijiudechengyuanlaishuoyijingbucunzaikejiannimenzebeiwomenshishuowomenyaoxiao 
mienazhongyishehuishangdejuedaduoshurenmeiyoucaichanweibiyaotiaojiandesuoyouzhi 
     zongeryanzhinimenzebeiwomenshishuowomenyaoxiaomienimendenazhongsuoyouzhidequewo 
menshiyaozheyangzuode 
     conglaodongbuzainengbianweizibenhuobidizuyijuhuabuzainengbianweikeyilongduandeshe 
huililiangdeshihouqijiushishuoconggerencaichanbuzainengbianweizichanjiejicaichandeshihouqinimen 
shuogexingjiubeixiaomieliao 
     youcikejiannimenshichengrennimensuolijiedegexingbuwaishizichanzhezichanjiejisi 
youzhezheyangdegexingqueshiyingdangbeixiaomie 
     gongchanzhuyibingbubaoduorenherenzhanyoushehuichanpindequanlitazhibaoduoliyongzhezhongzhanyouqu 
nuyitarenlaodongdequanli 
     yourenfanboshuosiyouzhiyixiaomieyiqiehuodongjiuhuitingzhilanduozhifengjiuhuixingqi 
     zheyangshuolaizichanjiejishehuizaojiuyinggaiyinlanduoermiewangliaoyinweizaizhegeshehuilishi 
laozhebuhuohuozhebulaodesuoyouzhexiegulvdukeyiguijieweizheyangyigetongyifanfuyidan 
meiyouzibenyejiubuzaiyouguyonglaodongliao 
     suoyouzhexieduigongchanzhuyidewuzhichanpindezhanyoufangshiheshengchanfangshidezebei                             yebeikuoji 
 
 
 
daojingshenchanpindezhanyouheshengchanfangmianzhengrujiejidesuoyouzhidezhongzhizaizichanzhekanlaishishengchanben 
shendezhongzhiyiyangjiejidejiaoyudezhongzhizaitamenkanlaijiudengyuyiqiejiaoyudezhongzhi 
     zichanzheweikongshiqudenazhongjiaoyuduijuedaduoshurenlaishuoshibarenxunlianchengjiqi 
     danshinimenjiranyongnimenzichanjiejiguanyuziyoujiaoyufadengdengdeguannianlaihengliangfei 
chuzichanjiejisuoyouzhidezhuzhangnajiuqingnimenbuyaotongwomenzhenglunliaonimendeguannianbenshenshizi 
chanjiejideshengchanguanxihesuoyouzhiguanxidechanwuzhengxiangnimendefabuguoshibeifengweifalvdenimen 
zhegejiejideyizhiyiyangerzhezhongyizhideneirongshiyounimenzhegejiejidewuzhishenghuotiaojianlaijue 
dingde 
     nimendelijiguannianshinimenbazijideshengchanguanxihesuoyouzhiguanxiconglishidezaishengchan 
guochengzhongshizanshideguanxibianchengyonghengdeziranguilvhelixingguilvzhezhonglijiguannianshinimenheyi 
qiemiewangliaodetongzhijiejisuogongyoudetandaogudaisuoyouzhideshihounimensuonenglijiedetandaofeng 
jiansuoyouzhideshihounimensuonenglijiedeyitandaozichanjiejisuoyouzhinimenjiuzaiyebunenglijie 
liao 
     xiaomiejiatinglianjiduandejijinpaiyeduigongchandangrendezhezhongkechideyitubiaoshifenkai 
     xiandaidezichanjiejidejiatingshijianlizaishimejichushangdeneshijianlizaizibenshangmian 
jianlizaisirenfacaishangmiandezhezhongjiatingzhishizaizichanjiejinalicaiyichongfenfazhandexingshicunzai 
zhuoerwuchanzhedebeipodujuhegongkaidemaiyinzeshitadebuchong 
     zichanzhedejiatingziranhuisuizhuotadezhezhongbuchongdexiaoshierxiaoshiliangzheduyaosuizhuoziben 
dexiaoshierxiaoshi 
     nimenshizebeiwomenyaoxiaomiefumuduizinvdebaoxiaomawomenchengrenzhezhongzuizhuang 
     danshinimenshuowomenyongshehuijiaoyudaitijiatingjiaoyujiushiyaoxiaomierenmenzuiqinmide 
guanxi 
     ernimendejiaoyubuyeshiyoushehuijuedingdemabuyeshiyounimenjinxingjiaoyudenazhongshehui 
guanxijuedingdemabuyeshiyoushehuitongguoxuexiaodengdengjinxingdezhijiedehuojianjiedeganshejuedingde 
magongchandangrenbingmeiyoufamingshehuiduijiaoyudeyingxiangtamenjinjinshiyaogaibianzhezhongyingxiangdexing 
zhiyaoshijiaoyubaituotongzhijiejideyingxiang 
     wuchanzhedeyiqiejiatinglianxiyueshiyouyudagongyedefazhanerbeipohuaitamendezinvyueshi 
youyuzhezhongfazhanerbeibianchengdanchundeshangpinhelaodonggongjuzichanjiejiguanyujiatinghejiaoyuguanyu 
fumuhezinvdeqinmiguanxidekonghuajiuyueshilingrenzuoou 
     danshinimengongchandangrenshiyaoshixinggongqizhidea----zhenggezichanjiejiyikoutongshengdixiang 
womenzheyangjiaohan 
     zichanzheshibazijideqizikanzuodanchundeshengchangongjudetamentingshuoshengchangongjujiangyaogong 
gongshiyongziranjiubunengbuxiangdaofunvyehuizaodaotongyangdemingyun 
     tamenxiangyemeiyouxiangdaowentizhengzaiyushifunvbuzaichuyudanchunshengchangongjudediwei 
     qishiwomendezichanzhezhuangdedaomaoanranduisuoweidegongchandangrendezhengshigongqizhibiaoshi 
jingyanashizaikexiaobuguoliaogongqizhiwuxugongchandangrenlaishixingtachabuduoshiyixiangjiuyoude 
     womendezichanzhebuyitamendewuchanzhedeqizihenvershoutamenzhipeiweimanzuzhengshide 
maiyingengbubishuoliaotamenhuanyihuxiangyoujianqiziweizuidadexiangle 
      
      
      
     zichanjiejidehunyinshijishangshigongqizhirenmenzhiduozhinengzebeigongchandangrenshuotamenxiang 
yongzhengshidegongkaidegongqizhilaidaitiweishandiyanbizhuodegongqizhiqishibuyaneryusuizhuo 
xianzaideshengchanguanxidexiaomiecongzhezhongguanxizhongchanshengdegongqizhijizhengshidehefeizhengshidemai 
yinyejiuxiaoshiliao 
     huanyourenzebeigongchandangrenshuotamenyaoquxiaozuguoquxiaominzu 
     gongrenmeiyouzuguojuebunengbaoduotamensuomeiyoudedongxiyinweiwuchanjiejishouxianbixuqu 
dezhengzhitongzhishangshengweiminzudejiejibazishenzuzhichengweiminzusuoyitabenshenhuanshiminzude 
suiranwanquanbushizichanjiejisuolijiedenazhongyisi 
     suizhuozichanjiejidefazhansuizhuomaoyiziyoudeshixianheshijieshichangdejianlisuizhuogongye 
shengchanyijiyuzhixiangshiyingdeshenghuotiaojiandequyuyizhigeguorenminzhijiandeminzugejueheduiliri 
yixiaoshi 
     wuchanjiejidetongzhijiangshitamengengkuaidixiaoshilianhedexingdongzhishaoshigewenmingguojiade 
lianhedexingdongshiwuchanjiejihuodejiefangdeshouyaotiaojianzhiyi 
     renduirendebaoxiaoyixiaomieminzuduiminzudebaoxiaojiuhuisuizhixiaomie 
     minzuneibudejiejiduiliyixiaoshiminzuzhijiandediduiguanxijiuhuisuizhixiaoshi 
     congzongjiaodezhexuedeheyibanyishixingtaideguandianduigongchanzhuyitichudezhongzhongzenandu 
buzhidexiangxitaolunliao 
     renmendeguannianguandianhegainianyiminghuarenmendeyishisuizhuorenmendeshenghuotiaojian 
renmendeshehuiguanxirenmendeshehuicunzaidegaibianergaibianzhenandaoxuyaojingguoshensicainengliaojie 
ma 
     sixiangdelishichuliaozhengmingjingshenshengchansuizhuowuzhishengchandegaizaoergaizaohuanzhengmingliaoshime 
nerenheyigeshidaidetongzhisixiangshizhongdubuguoshitongzhijiejidesixiang 
     dangrenmentandaoshizhenggeshehuigeminghuadesixiangshitamenzhishibiaomingliaoyigeshishizaijiu 
shehuineibuyijingxingchengliaoxinshehuideyinsujiusixiangdewajieshitongjiushenghuotiaojiandewajiebudiaoyi 
zhide 
     danggudaishijiezouxiangmiewangdeshihougudaidegezhongzongjiaojiubeijidujiaozhanshengliaodangjidu 
jiaosixiangzai     18 shijibeiqimengsixiangjibaideshihoufengjianshehuizhengzaitongdangshigemingdezichanjieji 
jinxingshusidedouzhengxinyangziyouhezongjiaoziyoudesixiangbuguobiaomingziyoujingzhengzaixinyangdelingyu 
lizhantongzhidiweibaliao 
         danshiyourenhuishuozongjiaodedaodedezhexuedezhengzhidefadeguanniandengdeng 
zailishifazhandejinchengzhongguranshibuduangaibiandeerzongjiaodaodezhexuezhengzhihefazaizhezhong 
bianhuazhongqueshizhongbaocunzhuo 
      ciwaihuancunzaizhuoyiqieshehuizhuangtaisuogongyoudeyonghengdezhenliruziyouzhengyidengdeng 
danshigongchanzhuyiyaofeichuyonghengzhenlitayaofeichuzongjiaodaodeerbushijiayigexinsuoyigong 
chanzhuyishitongzhijindequanbulishifazhanjinchengxiangmaodunde                       
      zhezhongzenanguijieweishimenezhijindeyiqieshehuidelishidushizaijiejiduilizhongyundong 
deerzhezhongduilizaigegebutongdeshidaijuyoubutongdexingshi 
      danshibuguanjiejiduilijuyoushimeyangdexingshishehuishangyibufenrenduilingyibufenren 
 
 
 
debaoxiaoqueshiguoqugegeshijisuogongyoudeshishiyincihaobuqiguaigegeshijideshehuiyishi 
jinguanxingxingseseqianchawanbiezongshizaimouxiegongtongdexingshizhongyundongdezhexiexingshizhexieyi 
shixingshizhiyoudangjiejiduiliwanquanxiaoshideshihoucaihuiwanquanxiaoshi 
      gongchanzhuyigemingjiushitongchuantongdesuoyouzhiguanxishixingzuichedidejueliehaobuqiguai 
tazaizijidefazhanjinchengzhongyaotongchuantongdeguannianshixingzuichedidejuelie 
      buguowomenhuanshibazichanjiejiduigongchanzhuyidezhongzhongzenanpiekaiba 
      qianmianwomenyijingkandaogongrengemingdediyibujiushishiwuchanjiejishangshengweitongzhijie 
jizhengdeminzhu 
      wuchanjiejijiangliyongzijidezhengzhitongzhiyibuyibudiduoquzichanjiejidequanbuzi 
benbayiqieshengchangongjujizhongzaiguojiajizuzhichengweitongzhijiejidewuchanjiejishoulibingqiejinke 
nengkuaidizengjiashengchanlidezongliang 
      yaozuodaozheyidiandangranshouxianbixuduisuoyouquanhezichanjiejishengchanguanxishixingqiangzhixing 
degansheyejiushicaiquzheyangyixiecuoshizhexiecuoshizaijingjishangsihushibugouchongfendehemeiyou 
liliangdedanshizaiyundongjinchengzhongtamenhuiyuechubenshenerqiezuoweibiangequanbushengchanfangshideshouduan 
shibibukeshaode 
     zhexiecuoshizaibutongdeguojialidangranhuishibutongde 
      danshizuixianjindeguojiajihudukeyicaiquxiamiandecuoshi 
       1baoduodichanbadizuyongyuguojiazhichu 
       2zhengshougaoeleijinshui 
       3feichujichengquan 
       4meishouyiqieliuwangfenzihepanluanfenzidecaichan 
       5tongguoyongyouguojiazibenheduxianglongduanquandeguojiayinxingbaxindaijizhongzaiguojiashouli 
       6baquanbuyunshuyejizhongzaiguojiashouli 
       7anzhaozongdejihuazengjiaguoyinggongchangheshengchangongjukaikenhuangdihegailiangturang 
       8shixingpubianlaodongyiwuzhichenglichanyejuntebieshizainongyefangmian 
       9banongyehegongyejieheqilaicushichengxiangduilizhubuxiaomie 
       10duisuoyouertongshixinggonggongdehemianfeidejiaoyuquxiaoxianzaizhezhongxingshideertongdegong 
changlaodongbajiaoyutongwuzhishengchanjieheqilaidengdeng 
      dangjiejichabiezaifazhanjinchengzhongyijingxiaoshierquanbushengchanjizhongzailianheqilaidegerende 
shoulideshihougonggongquanlijiushiquzhengzhixingzhiyuanlaiyiyishangdezhengzhiquanlishiyigejiejiyong 
yiyapolingyigejiejideyouzuzhidebaoliruguoshuowuchanjiejizaifanduizichanjiejidedouzhengzhongyi 
dingyaolianheweijiejiruguoshuotatongguogemingshizijichengweitongzhijiejibingyitongzhijiejidezige 
yongbaolixiaomiejiudeshengchanguanxinametazaixiaomiezhezhongshengchanguanxidetongshiyejiuxiaomieliaojieji 
duilihejiejibenshendecunzaitiaojiancongerxiaomieliaotazijizhegejiejidetongzhi 
   daitinacunzaizhuojiejihejiejiduilidezichanjiejijiushehuidejiangshizheyangyigelianheti 
zainalimeigerendeziyoufazhanshiyiqierendeziyoufazhandetiaojian 
 
 
sanshehuizhuyidehegongchanzhuyidewenxian 
 
 
 
 
 
1fandongdeshehuizhuyi 
 
 
(jia)fengjiandeshehuizhuyi 
    
    
   faguoheyingguodeguizuanzhaotamendelishidiweisuofudeshimingjiushixieyixiepengjixiandai 
zichanjiejishehuidezuopinzaifaguode               1830 nianqiyuegemingheyingguodegaigeyundongzhongtamenzai 
yicibeikehendebaofahudabailiaocongcijiuzaitanbushangyanzhongdezhengzhidouzhengliaotamenhuannengjinxing 
dezhishiwenzidouzhengdanshijishizaiwenzifangmianyebukenengzhongdanfubishiqidelaodiaoliaoweiliao 
jiqitongqingguizumenbudebuzhuangmozuoyangsihutamenyijingbuguanxinzishendeliyizhishiweiliao 
beibaoxiaodegongrenjiejideliyicaiquxieduizichanjiejidekongsushutamenyonglaixiefendeshouduanshi 
changchangzuzhoutamendexintongzhizhedegebingxiangtajijigugudishuoyixiehuoduohuoshaoxiongxiandeyuyan 
     zheyangjiuchanshengliaofengjiandeshehuizhuyibanshiwangebanshibangwenbanshiguoqudehuiyin 
banshiweilaidedongxiatayoushiyenengyongxinlaqiaopierjiankedepingluncizhongzichanjiejidexindan 
shitayouyuwanquanbunenglijiexiandailishidejinchengerzongshilingrengandaokexiao 
     weiliaolalongrenminguizumenbawuchanjiejideqishidaidangzuoqizhilaihuiwudanshimeidang 
renmingenzhuotamenzoudeshihoudufaxiantamendetunbudaiyoujiudefengjianwenzhangyushijiuhahada 
xiaoyihongersan 
     yibufenfaguozhengtongpaiheqingnianyingguoduyanguozhechuxi 
     fengjianzhushuotamendebaoxiaofangshihezichanjiejidebaoxiaobutongnatamenzhishiwangjiliao 
tamenshizaiwanquanbutongdemuqianyijingguoshideqingkuanghetiaojianxiajinxingbaoxiaodetamenshuozaita 
mendetongzhixiabingmeiyouchuxianguoxiandaidewuchanjiejinatamenzhishiwangjiliaoxiandaidezichanjieji 
zhengshitamendeshehuizhidudebiranchanwu 
     buguotamenhaobuyanshizijidepipingdefandongxingzhitamenkonggaozichanjiejidezhuyaozui 
zhuangzhengshizaiyuzaizichanjiejidetongzhixiayouyigejiangbazhenggejiushehuizhiduzhahuidejiejifazhanqi 
lai 
     tamenzebeizichanjiejiyuqishuoshiyinweitachanshengliaowuchanjiejiburushuoshiyinweitachan 
shengliaogemingdewuchanjieji 
     yincizaizhengzhishijianzhongtamencanyuduigongrenjiejicaiqudeyiqiebaolicuoshizairichang 
shenghuozhongtamenweibeizijidenayitaoguanmiantanghuangdeyanciquzunshiqujinpingguobuguxinyi 
renaihemingyuquzuoyangmaotiancaiheshaojiudemaimai 
   zhengrusenglvzongshitongfengjianzhuxieshoutongxingyiyangsenglvdeshehuizhuyiyezongshitongfengjiandeshehui 
zhuyixieshoutongxingde 
   yaogeijidujiaojinyuzhuyitushangyicengshehuizhuyidesecaishizairongyibuguoliaojidujiaobu 
shiyejiliefanduisiyouzhifanduihunyinfanduiguojiamatabushitichangyongxingshanheqiuqidushen 
hejinyuxiudaohelibailaidaitizheyiqiemajidujiaodeshehuizhuyizhibuguoshisenglvyonglaishi 
guizudeyuanfenshenshenghuadeshengshuibaliao 
 
 
 
 
 
(yi)xiaozichanjiejideshehuizhuyi 
      
     fengjianguizubingbushibeizichanjiejisuotuifandeqishenghuotiaojianzaixiandaizichanjiejishehuili 
riyiehuahexiaoshideweiyijiejizhongshijidechengguanshimindengjihexiaonongdengjishixiandaizichanjieji 
deqianshenzaigongshangyebuhenfadadeguojializhegejiejihuanzaixinxingdezichanjiejishenpangmianqiangsheng 
cunzhuo 
      zaixiandaiwenmingyijingfazhandeguojiali,xingchengliaoyigexindexiaozichanjiejitayaobaiyuwu 
chanjiejihezichanjiejizhijianbingqiezuoweizichanjiejishehuidebuchongbufenbuduandizhongxinzuchengdan 
shizheyijiejidechengyuanjingchangbeijingzhengpaodaowuchanjiejiduiwuliquerqiesuizhuodagongyedefa 
zhantamenshenzhijuechadaotamenhenkuaijiuhuiwanquanshiqutamenzuoweixiandaishehuizhongyigedulibufen 
dediweizaishangyegongyehenongyezhonghenkuaijiuhuibeijiangongheguyuansuodaiti 
      zainongminjiejiyuanyuanchaoguorenkoubanshudeguojialiruzaifaguonaxiezhanzaiwuchanjieji 
fangmianfanduizichanjiejidezhuzuojiaziranshiyongxiaozichanjiejihexiaonongdechiduqupipanzichanjieji 
zhidudeshicongxiaozichanjiejidelichangchufatigongrenshuohuadezheyangjiuxingchengliaoxiaozichanjiejide 
shehuizhuyixisimengdibujinduifaguoerqieduiyingguolaishuodushizheleizhuzuojiadeshouling 
      zhezhongshehuizhuyifeichangtouchedifenxiliaoxiandaishengchanguanxizhongdemaoduntajiechuanliaojingji 
xuejiadexuweidefenshitaquezaodizhengmingliaojiqihefengongdepohuaizuoyongzibenhedichandeji 
jushengchanguoshengweijixiaozichanzhehexiaonongdebiranmeiluowuchanjiejidepinkunshengchandewu 
zhengfuzhuangtaicaifufenpeidejibupingjungeminzuzhijiandehuimiexingdegongyezhanzhengyijijiufengshang 
jiujiatingguanxihejiuminzuxingdejieti 
      danshizhezhongshehuizhuyianqishijineironglaishuohuozheshiqituhuifujiudeshengchanshuju 
hejiaohuanshouduancongerhuifujiudesuoyouzhiguanxihejiudeshehuihuozheshiqituzhongxinbaxiandaidesheng 
chanshujuhejiaohuanshouduanyingsaidaoyibeitamentupoerqiebiranbeitupodejiudesuoyouzhiguanxidekuang 
ziliqutazaizheliangzhongchanghedushifandongdetongshiyoushikongxiangde 
     gongyezhongdexinghuizhidunongyezhongdezongfajingji----zhejiushitadezuihoujielun 
      zheyisichaozaitayihoudefazhanzhongbianchengliaoyizhongqienuodebeitan 
 
 
(bing)deguodehuozhenzhengdeshehuizhuyi 
       
      faguodeshehuizhuyihegongchanzhuyidewenxianshizaijuyutongzhidiweidezichanjiejideyapo 
xiachanshengdebingqieshitongzhezhongtongzhizuodouzhengdewenzibiaoxianzhezhongwenxianbeibandaodeguodeshihou 
nalidezichanjiejicaiganggangkaishijinxingfanduifengjianzhuanzhizhidudedouzheng 
      deguodezhexuejiabanzhexuejiahemeiwenxuejiatanlandizhuazhuliaozhezhongwenxianbuguota 
menwangjiliaozaizhezhongzhuzuocongfaguobandaodeguodeshihoufaguodeshenghuotiaojianquemeiyoutongshibanguo 
quzaideguodetiaojianxiafaguodewenxianwanquanshiquliaozhijieshijiandeyiyierzhijuyouchuncuiwen 
xiandexingshitabiranbiaoxianweiguanyuzhenzhengdeshehuiguanyushixianrendebenzhidewuweisibianzheyang 
diyicifaguogemingdeyaoqiuzai             18 shijidedeguozhexuejiakanlaibuguoshiyibanshijianlixing 
 
 
 
deyaoqiuergemingdefaguozichanjiejideyizhidebiaoxianzaitamenxinmuzhongjiushichuncuiyizhiben 
laideyizhizhenzhengrendeyizhideguilv 
      deguozhuzuojiadeweiyigongzuojiushibaxindefaguodesixiangtongtamendejiudezhexuexinyang 
diaoheqilaihuozhewuningshuojiushicongtamendezhexueguandianchufaquzhangwofaguodesixiang 
      zhezhongzhangwojiuxiangzhangwowaiguoyuyiyangshitongguofanyide 
      dajiazhidaosenglvmenzengjingzaigudaiyijiaojingdiandeshouchaobenshangmianxieshanghuangdandetianzhujiao 
shengtuchuandeguozhuzuojiaduishisudefaguowenxiancaiquxiangfandezuofatamenzaifaguodeyuanzhuxiamian 
xieshangzijidezhexuehushuolirutamenzaifaguorenduihuobiguanxidepipanxiamianxieshangrendeben 
zhidewaihuazaifaguorenduizichanjiejiguojiadepipanxiamianxieshangsuoweichouxiangpubianwudetongzhide 
yangqidengdeng 
      zhezhongzaifaguorendelunshuxiamiansaijinzijizhexuecijudezuofatamenchengzhiweixingdongde 
zhexuezhenzhengdeshehuizhuyideguodeshehuizhuyikexueshehuizhuyidezhexuelunzhengdeng 
deng 
      faguodeshehuizhuyihegongchanzhuyidewenxianjiuzheyangbeiwanquanyangeliaojiranzhezhongwenxian 
zaideguorenshouliyibuzaibiaoxianyigejiejifanduilingyigejiejidedouzhengyushideguorenjiurenwei 
tamenkefuliaofaguorendepianmianxingtamenbudaibiaozhenshideyaoqiuerdaibiaozhenlideyaoqiubu 
daibiaowuchanzhedeliyierdaibiaorendebenzhideliyijiyibanrendeliyizhezhongrenbushuyuren 
hejiejigenbenbucunzaiyuxianshijieerzhicunzaiyuyunwumimandezhexuehuanxiangdetaikong 
      zhezhongzengjingzhengzhongqishidikandaizijinayitaozhuoliedexiaoxueshengzuoyebingqiedayanbucandi 
jiayichuixudedeguoshehuizhuyixianzaijianjianshiquliaotadezixuanboxuedetianzhen 
      deguodetebieshipulushidezichanjiejifanduifengjianzhuhezhuanzhiwangchaodedouzhengyiju 
huaziyouzhuyiyundongyuelaiyueyanzhongliao 
      yushizhenzhengdeshehuizhuyijiudedaoliaoyigehaojihuibashehuizhuyideyaoqiutongzheng 
zhiyundongduiliqilaiyongzuzhouyiduanxieshuodechuantongbanfazuzhouziyouzhuyizuzhoudaiyizhiguojia 
zuzhouzichanjiejidejingzhengzichanjiejidexinwenchubanziyouzichanjiejidefazichanjiejidezi 
youhepingdengbingqiexiangrenminqunzhongdasixuanyangshuoshimezaizhegezichanjiejiyundongzhongrenminqunzhong 
feidanyiwusuodefanerhuishiquyiqiedeguodeshehuizhuyiqiahaowangjiliaofaguodepipan(de 
guodeshehuizhuyishizhezhongpipandekeliandehuisheng)shiyixiandaidezichanjiejishehuiyijixiangyingdewu 
zhishenghuotiaojianhexiangdangdezhengzhizhiduweiqiantideerzheyiqieqiantidangshizaideguozhengshishangdaizhengqu 
de 
      zhezhongshehuizhuyichengliaodeyizhigebangzhuanzhizhengfujiqisuicong----senglvjiaoyuanrongkehe 
guanliaoqiuzhibudedexiahulaishixiongxiongdezichanjiejidedaocaoren 
      zhezhongshehuizhuyishizhexiezhengfuyonglaizhenyadeguogongrenqiyideduladepibianheqiangdande 
tianmidebuchong 
      jiranzhenzhengdeshehuizhuyijiuzheyangchengliaozhexiezhengfuduifudeguozichanjiejidewuqi 
nametayejiuzhijiedaibiaoliaoyizhongfandongdeliyijideguoxiaoshimindeliyizaideguo16                                 shi 
jiyiliuxialaidecongnashiqijingchangyibutongxingshizhongxinchuxiandexiaozichanjiejishixiancunzhidude 
zhenshideshehuijichu 
        
        
        
       baocunzhegexiaozichanjiejijiushibaocundeguodexiancunzhiduzhegejiejidanzhanxinjingdi 
congzichanjiejidegongyetongzhihezhengzhitongzhinalidenghouzhuowukexingmiandemiewangzheyifangmianshiyouyu 
zibendejijulingyifangmianshiyouyugemingwuchanjiejidexingqizaitakanlaizhenzhengdeshehuizhu 
yinengqiyijianshuangdiaodezuoyongzhenzhengdeshehuizhuyixiangwenyiyiyangliuxingqilailiao 
      deguodeshehuizhuyizhegeizijidenajitiaoganbiedeyonghengzhenlipishangyijianyongsibiande 
zhusizhichengdexiumanhualicizaodehuaduohejintoutianqingmiyideganludewaiyizhejianguangcaiduomu 
dewaiyizhishishitamendehuowuzaizhexiegukezhongjianzengjiaxiaolubaliao 
      tongshideguodeshehuizhuyiyeyuelaiyuerenshidaozijideshimingjiushichongdangzhezhongxiaoshimin 
dekuakuaqitandedaiyanren 
      taxuanbudeyizhiminzushimofandeminzudeguoxiaoshiminshimofanderentageizhexiexiao 
shimindemeiyizhongchouxingdujiashangaomidegaoshangdeshehuizhuyideyiyishizhibianchengwanquanxiangfan 
dedongxitafazhandaozuihoujiuzhijiefanduigongchanzhuyideyemanpohuaideqingxiangbingqiexuanbuzi 
jishibupianbuyidechaohurenhejiejidouzhengzhishangdexianjinzaideguoliuxingdeyiqiesuoweishehuizhuyi 
hegongchanzhuyidezhuzuochuliaojishaoshudeliwaidushuyuzheyileibeibiwochuodelingrenweimide 
wenxian 
 
 
2baoshoudehuozichanjiejideshehuizhuyi 
      zichanjiejizhongdeyibufenrenxiangyaoxiaochushehuidebibingyibianbaozhangzichanjiejishehuide 
shengcun 
      zheyibufenrenbaokuojingjixuejiaboaizhuyizherendaozhuyizhelaodongjiejizhuangkuang 
gaishanpaicishanshiyezuzhizhedongwubaohuxiehuihuiyuanjiejiuxiehuifaqirenyijixingxingshisese 
dexiaogailiangjiazhezhongzichanjiejideshehuizhuyishenzhibeizhichengyixiewanzhengdetixi 
      womenkeyijupuludongdepinkundezhexuezuoweilizi 
      shehuizhuyidezichanzheyuanyiyaoxiandaishehuideshengcuntiaojiandanshibuyaoyouzhexietiaojianbi 
ranchanshengdedouzhengheweixiantamenyuanyiyaoxiancundeshehuidanshibuyaonaxieshizhegeshehuigeminghua 
hewajiedeyinsutamenyuanyiyaozichanjiejidanshibuyaowuchanjiejizaizichanjiejikanlaita 
suotongzhideshijieziranshizuimeihaodeshijiezichanjiejideshehuizhuyibazhezhonganweirenxindeguannian 
zhichengbantaohuozhengtaodetixitayaoqiuwuchanjiejishixiantadetixizoujinxindeyelusalengqi 
shitabuguoshiyaoqiuwuchanjiejitingliuzaixianjindeshehuilidanshiyaopaoqitamenguanyuzhegeshehuide 
keedeguannian 
      zhezhongshehuizhuyidelingyizhongbugouxitongdanshibijiaoshijidexingshilitushigongrenjie 
jiyanqiyiqiegemingyundongyingshuonenggeigongrenjiejidailaihaochudebingbushizheyanghuonayangdezhengzhigai 
geerjinjinshiwuzhishenghuotiaojianjijingjiguanxidegaibiandanshizhezhongshehuizhuyisuolijiedewu 
zhishenghuotiaojiandegaibianjueduibushizhiyoutongguogemingdetujingcainengshixiandezichanjiejishengchanguanxi 
dexiaomieershiyixiexingzhengshangdegailiangzhexiegailiangshizaizhezhongshengchanguanxidejichushangshixingde 
yinersihaobuhuigaibianzibenheguyonglaodongdeguanxizhiduozhinengjianshaozichanjiejidetongzhifeiyonghe 
jianhuatadecaizhengguanli 
      zichanjiejideshehuizhuyizhiyouzaitabianchengchuncuideyanshuocilingdeshihoucaihuodeziji 
 
 
 
deshidangdebiaoxian 
      ziyoumaoyiweiliaogongrenjiejideliyibaohuguanshuiweiliaogongrenjiejideliyidan 
shenlaofangweiliaogongrenjiejideliyi----zhecaishizichanjiejideshehuizhuyiweiyirenzhenshuochude 
zuihoudehua 
      zichanjiejideshehuizhuyijiushizheyangyigelunduanzichanzhezhiweizichanzheshiweiliaogong 
renjiejideliyi 
3pipandekongxiangdeshehuizhuyihegongchanzhuyi 
      zaizheliwomenbutanzaixiandaiyiqiedagemingzhongbiaodaguowuchanjiejiyaoqiudewenxian(babei 
fudengrendezhuzuo) 
     wuchanjiejizaipubianjidongdeshidaizaituifanfengjianshehuideshiqizhijieshixianzijijiejili 
yidezuichuchangshidubukebimiandizaodaoliaoshibaizheshiyouyudangshiwuchanjiejibenshenhuanbugoufa 
zhanyouyuwuchanjiejijiefangdewuzhitiaojianhuanmeiyoujubeizhexietiaojianzhishizichanjiejishidaidechan 
wusuizhuozhexiezaoqidewuchanjiejiyundongerchuxiandegemingwenxianjiuqineironglaishuobiranshifandong 
dezhezhongwenxianchangdaopubiandejinyuzhuyiheculoudepingjunzhuyi 
      benlaiyiyideshehuizhuyihegongchanzhuyidetixishengximenfuliyeouwendengrende 
tixishizaiwuchanjiejihezichanjiejizhijiandedouzhenghuanbufazhandezuichushiqichuxiandeguanyuzhe 
geshiqiwomenzaiqianmianyijingxushuguoliao(jianzichanjiejihewuchanjieji) 
      chengranzhexietixidefamingjiakandaoliaojiejideduiliyijizhantongzhidiweideshehuiben 
shenzhongdewajieyinsudezuoyongdanshitamenkanbudaowuchanjiejifangmianderenhelishizhudongxingkan 
budaotasuoteyouderenhezhengzhiyundong 
      youyujiejiduilidefazhanshitonggongyedefazhanbudiaoyizhidesuoyizhexiefamingjiayebu 
kenengkandaowuchanjiejijiefangdewuzhitiaojianyushitamenjiuqutanqiumouzhongshehuikexueshehuigui 
lvyibianchuangzaozhexietiaojian 
      shehuidehuodongyaoyoutamengerendefaminghuodonglaidaitijiefangdelishitiaojianyaoyouhuanxiang 
detiaojianlaidaitiwuchanjiejidezhubuzuzhichengweijiejiyaoyoutamenteyishejichulaideshehuizuzhi 
laidaitizaitamenkanlaijinhoudeshijielishibuguoshixuanchuanheshishitamendeshehuijihua 
      chengrantamenyeyishidaotamendejihuazhuyaoshidaibiaogongrenjiejizheyishoukuzuishende 
jiejideliyizaitamendexinmuzhongwuchanjiejizhishiyigeshoukuzuishendejieji 
      danshiyouyujiejidouzhengbufazhanyouyutamenbenshendeshenghuozhuangkuangtamenjiuyiweizi 
jishigaogaochaohuzhezhongjiejiduilizhishangdetamenyaogaishanshehuiyiqiechengyuandeshenghuozhuangkuangshenzhi 
shenghuozuiyouyudechengyuanyebaokuozaineiyincitamenzongshibujiaqubiedixiangzhenggeshehuihuyuer 
qiezhuyaoshixiangtongzhijiejihuyutamenyiweirenmenzhiyaolijietamendetixijiuhuichengrenzhezhong 
tixishizuimeihaodeshehuidezuimeihaodejihua 
      yincitamenjujueyiqiezhengzhixingdongtebieshiyiqiegemingxingdongtamenxiangtongguoheping 
detujingdadaozijidemudebingqieqitutongguoyixiexiaoxingdedangranbuhuichenggongdeshiyantongguo 
shifandelilianglaiweixindeshehuifuyinkaibidaolu 
      zhezhongduiweilaishehuidehuanxiangdemiaohuishizaiwuchanjiejihuanhenbufazhanyinerduibenshen 
dediweiderenshihuanjiyuhuanxiangdeshihoutongwuchanjiejiduishehuipubiangaizaodezuichudebennengdeke 
wangxiangshiyingde 
      danshizhexieshehuizhuyihegongchanzhuyidezhuzuoyehanyoupipandechengfenzhexiezhuzuopeng 
jixiancunshehuidequanbujichuyincitamentigongliaoqifagongrenjuewudejiweibaoguidecailiaota 
menguanyuweilaishehuidejijidezhuzhangliruxiaomiechengxiangduilixiaomiejiatingxiaomiesirenyingli 
xiaomieguyonglaodongtichangshehuihexiebaguojiabianchengchuncuideshengchanguanlijigou----suoyouzhexie 
zhuzhangduzhishibiaomingyaoxiaomiejiejiduilierzhezhongjiejiduilizaidangshiganggangkaishifazhantamensuo 
zhidaodezhishizhezhongduilidezaoqidebumingxiandebuquedingdexingshiyincizhexiezhuzhangbenshen 
huandaiyouchuncuikongxiangdexingzhi 
      pipandekongxiangdeshehuizhuyihegongchanzhuyideyiyishitonglishidefazhanchengfanbide 
jiejidouzhengyuefazhanheyuejuyouquedingdexingshizhezhongchaohujiejidouzhengdehuanxiangzhezhongfanduijieji 
douzhengdehuanxiangjiuyueshiqurenheshijianyiyiherenhelilungenjusuoyisuiranzhexietixidechuang 
shirenzaixuduofangmianshigemingdedanshitamendexintuzongshizuchengyixiefandongdezongpaizhexiexintu 
wushiwuchanjiejidelishijinzhanhuanshisishouzhuolaoshimendejiuguandianyincitamenyiguanqituxiao 
ruojiejidouzhengdiaoheduilitamenhuanzongshimengxiangyongshiyandebanfalaishixianzijideshehuikongxiang 
chuangbandangedefalunsitaierjianliguoneiyiminquchuanglixiaoyijialiyajixiuzhenbandexinyelu 
saleng----erweiliaojianzaozheyiqiekongzhonglougetamenjiubudebuhuyuzichanjiejifashanxinhekang 
kaijienangtamenzhujiandiduoluodaoshangshufandongdehuobaoshoudeshehuizhuyizhedeyihuozhongquliaosuobu 
tongdezhishitamengengjiaxitongdimainongxuewenkuangredimixinzijinayitaoshehuikexuedeqigongyi 
xiao 
      yincitamenjiliedifanduigongrendeyiqiezhengzhiyundongrenweizhezhongyundongzhishiyouyumang 
mudibuxiangxinxinfuyincaifashengde 
      zaiyingguoyououwenzhuyizhefanduixianzhangpaizaifaguoyoufuliyezhuyizhefanduigaige 
pai 
 
 
sigongchandangrenduigezhongfanduidangpaidetaidu 
     kanguodierzhangzhihoujiukeyiliaojiegongchandangrentongyijingxingchengdegongrenzhengdangdeguanxiyin 
eryejiukeyiliaojietamentongyingguoxianzhangpaihebeimeitudigaigepaideguanxi 
     gongchandangrenweigongrenjiejidezuijindemudeheliyierdouzhengdanshitamenzaidangqiandeyundong 
zhongtongshidaibiaoyundongdeweilaizaifaguogongchandangrentongshehuizhuyiminzhudanglianheqilaifanduibaoshou 
dehejijindezichanjiejidanshibingbuyincifangqiduinaxieconggemingdechuantongzhongchengxixialaidekongtan 
hehuanxiangcaiqupipantaidudequanli 
      zairuishigongchandangrenzhichijijinpaidanshibingbuhuluezhegezhengdangshiyouhuxiangmaodunde 
fenzizuchengdeqizhongyibufenshifaguoshideminzhushehuizhuyizheyibufenshijijindezichanzhe 
      zaibolanrenzhongjiangongchandangrenzhichinagebatudigemingdangzuominzujiefangdetiaojiandezheng 
dangjifadongguo       1846 niankelakefuqiyidezhengdang 
      zaideguozhiyaozichanjiejicaiqugemingdexingdonggongchandangjiutongtayiqiqufanduizhuanzhi 
junzhuzhifengjiantudisuoyouzhihexiaoshimindefandongxing 
      danshigongchandangyifenzhongyebuhuluejiaoyugongrenjinkenengmingquediyishidaozichanjiejihe 
wuchanjiejidediduideduiliyibiandeguogongrennenggoulikeliyongzichanjiejitongzhisuobirandailaide 
shehuidehezhengzhidetiaojianzuoweifanduizichanjiejidewuqiyibianzaituifandeguodefandongjiejizhihou 
lijikaishifanduizichanjiejibenshendedouzheng 
      gongchandangrenbazijidezhuyaozhuyilijizhongzaideguoyinweideguozhengchuzaizichanjiejige 
mingdeqianyeyinweitong        17 shijideyingguohe     18 shijidefaguoxiangbideguojiangzaizhenggeouzhouwenming 
gengjinbudetiaojianxiayongyoufazhandeduodewuchanjiejiqushixianzhegebiangeyinerdeguodezichanjie 
jigemingzhinengshiwuchanjiejigemingdezhijiexumu 
      zongzhigongchandangrendaochuduzhichiyiqiefanduixiancundeshehuizhiduhezhengzhizhidudegeming 
yundong 
      zaisuoyouzhexieyundongzhongtamendutebieqiangdiaosuoyouzhiwentishiyundongdejibenwentibu 
guanzhegewentidefazhanchengduzenyang 
      zuihougongchandangrendaochudunulizhengququanshijiedeminzhuzhengdangzhijiandetuanjiehexiediao 
     gongchandangrenbuxieyuyinmanzijideguandianheyitutamengongkaixuanbutamendemudezhiyou 
yongbaolituifanquanbuxiancundeshehuizhiducainengdadaorangtongzhijiejizaigongchanzhuyigemingmianqianfadou 
bawuchanzhezaizhegegemingzhongshiqudezhishisuoliantamenhuodedejiangshizhenggeshijie 
 
quanshijiewuchanzhelianheqilai 
